DR. 17
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE
RISE TO JOIN US FOR A MOMENT
OF SILENCE FOLLOWED BY THE
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
.
I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE INDIVISIBLE WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE
IN OUR.
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
GREATER DOWN HERE PRESIDENT
SPEAKERS OF YOUR HOUSE HERE
RIGHT HERE AS WELL DENHA HERE
REGULAR HERE EITHER HERE OR
HERE SOMEWHERE AND ALSO HERE
SWARBRICK HERE ELSEWHERE ABOUT
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
>> WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
BRITISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
>> OUR DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
FAVOR OPPOSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
NO, SIR.
WE HAVE NO INTRODUCTIONS TODAY
AND SO WE MOVE STRAIGHT TO
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
PUBLIC COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
WHAT NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND
ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED EITHER BY THE
LIGHTS OR VERBALLY IF YOU'RE
ONLINE WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED IN EACH INSTANCE PLEASE
CONCLUDE REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY
IS JEFFREY HAROLD, MAYOR.
I BELIEVE MR. HAROLD MIGHT
STILL BE OUTSIDE AT THE SO FAIR
POINT JEFFREY HAROLD, OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS AUDREY ANDERSON.
>> AUDREY ANDERSON
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EDWARD
SANDERS.
EDWARD SANDERS
.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS HENRY
HERSKOVITS
.
GOOD EVENING.
IN TWENTY SIXTEEN THE
ADMINISTRATION PASSED
LEGISLATION TO ENSURE THAT A
SCHOOL DISTRICT'S SOCIAL
STUDIES CURRICULUM FOR GRADES
EIGHT TO 12 INCLUDE AGE AND
GRADE APPROPRIATE INSTRUCTION
ABOUT GENOCIDE INCLUDING THE
HOLOCAUST AND THE ARMENIAN
GENOCIDE.
MY QUESTION TO COUNCIL TONIGHT
IS WHAT'S BEING TAUGHT ANN
ARBOR STUDENTS WITH OUR TAX
DOLLARS?
I BELIEVE WE HAVE A RIGHT TO
KNOW.
>> FOR EXAMPLE, WILL THE
STUDENTS BE REQUIRED TO READ
THE DIARY OF ANNE FRANK WRITTEN
BY A NUMBER OF AUTHORS OR THIS
BOOK UNMASKING ANNE FRANK HER
FAMOUS DIARY EXPOSED IS A
LITERARY FRAUD BY IKUO ZUKI.
PERHAPS BOTH TEXTS WILL BE USED
AND STUDENTS ARE ALLOWED TO
DEBATE THE ISSUE BASED ON THEM.
THAT SOUNDS PRODUCTIVE.
WHAT IS THE CURRICULUM FOR
STUDENTS AS TEACHERS COMPLY
WITH THE STATE'S GUIDELINES?
WHAT TITLES OF BOOKS WILL BE
USED?
>> WILL OUTSIDE SPEAKERS BE
INVITED TO SHARE KNOWLEDGE WITH
THESE STUDENTS?
>> WILL DEBATE BE SET UP
BETWEEN HOLOCAUST EXPERTS
DEBORAH LIPSTADT AND GIRMA
RUDOLPH TO SETTLE CLAIMS ON
BOTH SIDES ARE THERE IN FACT
TWO SIDES TO THIS DEBATE?
INCREDIBLY, SOME SAY NO.
A SCULPTOR FRIEND OF MINE IS
CREATING ARTWORK FOR A
HOLOCAUST MUSEUM IN FLORIDA.
HE ASKED ME FOR SOME INPUT.
I SAID I WASN'T IN EUROPE
DURING WORLD WAR TWO BUT
WINSTON CHURCHILL, DWIGHT
EISENHOWER AND CHARLES DE
GAULLE CERTAINLY WERE WELL
AFTER THE WAR.
THE GENTLEMAN PENNED THEIR
MEMOIRS.
>> CHURCHILL WROTE THE SECOND
WORLD WAR EISENHOWER CRUSADE IN
EUROPE AND DE MEMORIES OF WAR.
THESE COMBINED WRITINGS TOTAL
OVER SEVEN THOUSAND PAGES BUT
READERS WILL FIND NO MENTION
EITHER OF NAZI GAS CHAMBERS A
GENOCIDE OF THE JEWS OR OF SIX
MILLION JEWISH VICTIMS OF THE
WAR.
>> NEEDLESS TO SAY, MY SCULPTOR
FRIEND WAS SHOCKED HE HAD NEVER
HEARD OF THIS FACT.
PERHAPS YOU MIGHT BE AS WELL.
HERE'S THE SOURCE TELL A TRUTH
AND SHAME THE DEVIL BY GERARD
MENUHIN, THE SON OF JEWISH
VIOLINIST YEHUDI MENUHIN.
LOCALLY THERE'S A FACEBOOK
GROUP CALLED ANN ARBOR POLITICS
.
THE HOLOCAUST SUBJECT CAME UP
AND I REFERRED TO A SHORT
ARTICLE BY DAN MCGOWAN CALLED
WHAT DOES HOLOCAUST DENIAL
REALLY MEAN?
WHICH DEFINES THE TERM IN SOME
DETAIL A GRAD STUDENT MEMBER
OF THIS GROUP TOLD ME THAT
PRIOR TO DAN'S READING READING
DAN'S ESSAY HE MERELY ASSUMED
THAT SO-CALLED DENIERS JUST
ELIMINATE THE ENTIRE EXPERIENCE
OF JEWS DURING WORLD WAR TWO.
>> HE WAS SHOCKED BUT EAGER TO
FIND MORE AND I HOPE WE ALL
ARE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TRISHA
DUCKWORTH
.
MISS DUCKWORTH, IF YOU'RE ON
LINE, PLEASE RAISE YOUR HAND
HERE.
I DON'T SEE OUR SPEAKER ON THE
CALL
.
WE HAVE A SERIES OF SPEAKERS
HAVING BEEN CALLED THAT WE ARE
AT THE END OF OUR SPEAKER LIST
FOR SPEAKERS WHO ARE NOT HERE
WHEN THEY WERE CALLED IS
JEFFREY HAROLD IN THE ROOM?
MR. HAROLD, IT'S YOUR TURN TO
SPEAK.
THANK YOU.
AND MY APOLOGIES FOR MY
TARDINESS TO YOU ALL GOOD
EVENING, COUNCIL MEMBERS.
I'M JEFF HAROLD AND I'M THE
PART OF NEW BEGINNINGS
COMMUNITY CHURCH OF WASHTENAW
COUNTY AND A RESIDENT OF ANN
ARBOR.
MY FAITH LEADS ME TO WORK ON
RACIAL AND SOCIAL JUSTICE
ISSUES INCLUDING WITH THE
WASHINGTON REGION ORGANIZING
COALITION.
WE ARE A COALITION OF FAITH
LABOR COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS
AND INDIVIDUALS THAT BUILD
HEALTHY COLLECTIVE POWER NEEDED
TO BREAK DOWN THE SYSTEMS THAT
SUSTAIN INJUSTICE AND ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY.
ANOTHER THE ORGANIZATION I'M
ACTIVE WITH THIS CALLED MOLDERS
ACTION AND ONE OF MOSES ACTIONS
ABOUT GOALS IS TO PROMOTE
INCREASED VOTER PARTICIPATION
AMONG PEOPLE OF COLOR, LOW
INCOME INDIVIDUALS AND
HISTORICALLY MARGINALIZED
GROUPS.
THE CORE GOAL IS WHAT LED US TO
BE A FOUNDING MEMBER OF THE
COALITION CALLED DEFEND BLACK
VOTERS IN TWENTY TWENTY BLACK,
BROWN AND WORKING CLASS PEOPLE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY SHOWED UP TO
THE POLLS IN FORCE AND NOW WE
ARE FACING A REACTION A THINLY
VEILED PLOY THE USE THE BIG LIE
AS AN EXCUSE TO PASS
RESTRICTIONS TO MAKE IT HARDER
FOR US TO VOTE.
THAT PLOY IS CALLED SECURE MY
VOTE AND THIS EFFORT COULD BE
PASSED INTO LAW BY THE END
OF THE YEAR.
THE STAKES FOR MY COMMUNITY
COULDN'T BE HIGHER.
I CAN'T SIT IDLY BY WHILE THERE
ARE EFFORTS TO SILENCE THE
VOICES IN MY COMMUNITY ELEMENTS
OF SECURE MY VOTE LIKE DOING
AWAY WITH AUTOMATIC ABSENTEE
BALLOTS WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
THE SENIORS IN MY CONGREGATION.
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD
OF MICHIGAN AND DELTA DENHA
OF MICHIGAN HAVE BEEN USING OUR
TAXPAYER DOLLARS TO THEIR
CONTRACTS WITH THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR TO BANKROLL THE
LEGISLATORS BEHIND THIS EFFORT
VENDORS DOING BUSINESS WITH THE
CITY SHOULD ALIGN THEIR OWN
PUBLICLY STATED POSITIONS ON
RACIAL JUSTICE AND INTERNAL
POLICIES ON DIVERSITY EQUITY
INCLUSION WITH THEIR POLITICAL
ADVOCACY AND SPENDING.
AT THIS CRITICAL MOMENT WE ARE
ASKING COUNCIL MEMBERS TO TAKE
A BOLD STAND AS AN IMPORTANT
VOTE IN OUR COMMUNITY TO HOLD
THESE CORPORATIONS ACCOUNTABLE
TO PROTECT OUR CIVIL RIGHTS.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO ADDRESS THE COUNCIL ON
MATTERS IMPORTANT TO US
.
>> GOOD EVENING COUNCIL AND
AUDREY ANDERSON.
I'M A PROUD MEMBER LEADER
OF THE MICHIGAN PEOPLE'S
CAMPAIGN AS A RETIRED HEALTH
CARE WORKER HERE IN WASHTENAW
COUNTY, I WAS ACTUALLY A PUBLIC
HEALTH NURSE FOR THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
I'VE SERVED COUNTLESS ANN ARBOR
AND WASHTENAW COUNTY RESIDENTS
INCLUDING SENIORS AND LOW
INCOME FAMILIES STRUGGLING TO
GET BY STRUGGLING TO OVERCOME
THE SOCIAL DETERMINANTS THAT
THEY FACE.
>> I KNOW COUNTLESS FOLKS LIKE
THE PATIENTS I SERVED NEED THE
SUPPORT TO MAKE IT TO THE POLLS
AND RECEIVE THEIR ABSENTEE
BALLOT.
THE ARCHITECTS OF VOTER
SUPPRESSION LEGISLATION KNOW
VERY WELL THAT WHEN BARRIERS
ARE RAISED TO VOTING IT WILL
DISPROPORTIONED THAT SILENCE
THE VOICES OF THE PEOPLE THAT I
SERVED INCLUDING MY OWN VOICE
THE EXTREMISTS LAWMAKERS TRYING
TO SILENCE OUR VOICES KNOW THAT
BLACK AND LOW INCOME
MICHIGANDERS WANT CHANGE AND
THAT'S WHAT MAKES THEM FEARFUL
OF US.
THAT'S WHY THEY'RE TRYING TO
SILENCE US.
>> WE WANT AN ECONOMY THAT
WORKS FOR 99 PERCENT, NOT THE
ONE PERCENT.
WE WANT A JUST AND EQUITABLE
SOCIETY AND THOSE THAT PROFIT
FROM THIS SYSTEM ARE DOING
WHATEVER IT TAKES TO STOP OUR
VOICES FROM BEING HEARD.
>> THAT IS WHY THEY STILL USE
THE BIG LIE AS AN EXCUSE TO
PASS VOTER RESTRICTIONS THAT
JUST SO HAPPEN TO DIS
PROPORTIONATELY IMPACT BLACK
AND LOW INCOME MICHIGANDERS
INVESTIGATION AFTER
INVESTIGATION INCLUDING THOSE
LED BY REPUB LUKINS HAVE PROVEN
THAT 20-20 WAS THE MOST KUHR
ELECTION ON RECORD YET THEY
INSIST THEY NEED TO PASS THESE
MEASURES BECAUSE OF VOTER FRAUD
.
>> I SAY TO THEM YOU'RE NOT
FOOLING ANYONE.
I WAS 13 YEARS OLD IN NINETEEN
SIXTY FIVE WHEN I SAW BLOODY
SUNDAY I HEAR THE BEEP AND
EIGHT AND FIVE YEARS LATER AT
EIGHTEEN YEARS OLD I WAS ABLE
TO VOTE AND CONSISTENTLY EVERY
YEAR AFTER THAT AND WHEN IT WAS
TIME TO VOTE I VOTED.
I DON'T WANT THEM AND THEY
CAN'T HAVE MY VOTE.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME AND
THANK YOU FOR LISTENING TO US.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS EDWARD
SANDERS.
EDWARD SANDERS THAT WILL BE YOU
WILL THREE FRONT SIR.
GOOD EVENING.
A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF TIME I HAVE
THREE MINUTES OR THREE MINUTES.
OK I WANT TO TAKE IT HOME.
I KNOW EVERYBODY IS MAKING ALL
STATEMENTS IN REGARDS TO
CERTAIN HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS
AS A SOCIAL WORKER, AS A SOCIAL
WORKER I WOULD LIKE TO TAKE IN
THOSE WHO ARE ON.
I HAVE OUR CONCERN ABOUT OUR
HEALTH IF WE WOULD IMAGINE
DEMOCRACY TO BE ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT WE CONSIDER TO BE
DETERMINATIVE OF HEALTH.
YOU KNOW, OUR PARTICIPATE IN A
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS AND WHERE WE
TAKE AND HAVE SOME SAY IN OUR
WELL-BEING AND IN DOING THAT I
WOULD SUGGEST AS OPPOSED TO
TAKING AND GIVING MONEY TO
PEOPLE WHO ALREADY HAVE MONEY
OR GIVING MONEY TO PEOPLE WHO
HAVE POWER.
LET'S IMAGINE IF WE DONE THAT
WITH PEOPLE THAT WAS LEAST
REPRESENTED IN OUR SOCIETY
THOSE WHO WERE COMING HOME FROM
OUR PRISONS ONE IF WE TOOK AND
PROVIDED THEM TRANSPORT TO THE
SECRETARY OF STATE'S OFFICE AND
HE HAD THEM NOT ONLY TO GET THE
ID BUT TO REGISTER TO VOTE AND
THEN HEAD DOWN TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN HEALTH AND
SERVICE WHERE THEY CAN TAKE AND
BEGIN TO TAKE OR SIGN UP FOR
MEDICAID.
THEY CAN TAKE AND SIGN UP FOR
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE PROVIDER
AND THESE ARE THINGS THAT WILL
KEEP MICHIGAN HEALTHY.
THESE ARE IDEAS THAT DON'T JUST
TAKE AN ATTACK TO EACH THESE
IDEAS TO SAY LET'S COME
TOGETHER, LET'S DO SOMETHING TO
ACTUALLY AFFECT OUR DEMOCRACY.
MOST OF THE MEN AND WOMEN IN
OUR PRISONS IN THE UNITED
STATES, NOT JUST MICHIGAN
NINETY BETWEEN NINETY FOUR
NINETY SEVEN PERCENT OF THEM
WENT TO PRISON AS A RESULT
OF COPPING OUT OF WHAT WAS
CLAIMED TO BE THE MOST
DEMOCRATIC SYSTEM IN AMERICA
AND THAT'S A JURY SYSTEM.
THEY DIDN'T TAKE AND GO TO A
JURY.
THEY WENT TO GUILTY PLEAS ONE
IF WE REALLY GAVE THEM
DEMOCRACY WHEN THEY CAME IF WE
GAVE THEM THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PARTICIPATE IN OUR DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS INSTEAD OF CALLING THEM
IN A GENERIC WAY RETURNING
CITIZENS, WE MAKE THEM RETURN
CITIZEN BY GIVING THEM AN
OPPORTUNITY TO EXPERIENCE REAL
RESPONSIBILITY AND
PARTICIPATING IN A DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS, ELECTING STATE
OFFICIALS ETC..
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TRISHA
DUCKWORTH.
>> HELLO.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
JUST HERE TODAY TO STAND WITH
THE COALITION TO ASK YOU ALL TO
JUST LEAN IN A LITTLE FARTHER
TO THE WORK WE ARE HERE ABOUT
DEFENDING THE BLACK VOTE IS
SAID THAT IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO
WE HAVE TO EVEN BE TALKING
ABOUT DEFENDING THE BLACK VOTE.
RIGHT.
IT'S A CONVERSATION WE
SHOULDN'T BE HAVING BUT WE'RE
HERE TO HAVE IT AND WE ARE
GRATEFUL FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO
UNDERSTAND THIS CONVERSATION
AND THE IMPORTANCE OF IT AND
THE CONTINUATION OF THE WORK
WHO WE'RE ASKING EVERYONE TO
JUST SAY AND A LITTLE FURTHER
BLACK FOLKS ARE SUFFERING, YOU
KNOW, IN COMMUNITIES THAT WE'RE
SERVING THE CONTINUATION OF THE
SUFFERING AND TO THINK ABOUT
LOSING THE VOTE, THAT'S THE
ONLY THING THAT WE HAVE THAT'S
OUR POWER.
THERE'S TWO FORMS OF POWER THAT
TOLD FOLKS THE OTHER DAY IT'S
THE MONEY, RIGHT?
WE KNOW MONEY IS THE POWER BUT
OUR VOTE OUR COLLECTIVE VOTE
TOGETHER WE CAN PROMOTE CHANGE
AND WE'RE ASKING YOU ALL TO
LEAN IN WITH US EVEN FURTHER
AND CONTINUE THE WORK TO DEFEND
THE BLACK VOTE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
I WANTED TO I'D LIKE TO
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO ATTEND THE
WASHINGTON HOUSING ALLIANCE,
THE STATE OF HOMELESSNESS AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING EVENT ON
NOVEMBER 15TH.
REGISTRATION IS OPEN.
IT'LL BE FEATURING MY FRIEND
EL-SAYED AS THE KEYNOTE
SPEAKER.
SO IT SHOULD BE AN INTERESTING
TIME AND ALSO A FUNDRAISER TO
SUPPORT SUPPORT OF SERVICES
HOUSING SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
ALSO NOTE THE COUNTY ON
NOVEMBER 2ND WILL BE WILL BE
VOTING FOR ADDITIONAL
ALLOCATIONS FOR SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES AND I'M REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THIS AS IT GETS COLDER.
ANN ARBOR HAS DONE ITS
PART IN
ALLOCATING OUR FUNDING FOR
THIS.
I'M I'M VERY HOPEFUL THAT THE
COUNTY WILL DISCUSS AND PASS A
RESOLUTION SO THAT THERE ARE
MONEY THERE.
FEDERAL RECOVERY RELIEF FUNDING
WILL ALSO GO TOWARDS HOUSING
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND
HOPEFULLY THAT SETS UP
MULTI-YEAR FUNDING EFFORT.
SO MANY THANKS TO COUNTY
COMMISSIONER ANDY LOBAR.
JUSTIN HIJ KATIE SCOTT AND MORE
FOR REALLY PUSHING FOR THIS FOR
THE PAST YEAR AND A HALF NO
FURTHER COMMUNICATION.
>> COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD, FIRST
I'D LIKE TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE
COVERAGE THAT CHANNEL SEVEN
GAVE A WEEK TO GO FOR THE
GROWING DIOXANE PLUME AND
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THE EPA HAS
CONSULTANTS AT THE SITE NOW
TAKING SAMPLES AND IN ONE
OF THE SLOGANS THAT WAS USED IN
THE COVERAGE WAS REMEDIATION,
NOT LITIGATION.
WE NEED TO START THE
REMEDIATION AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
SECONDLY, I WAS IN NEW YORK
YESTERDAY FOR MY BIRTHDAY TO
SEE MY NEW GRANDSON BUT MY SON
IN LAW INSISTED THAT HE TAKE ME
TO HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY FOR A
TOUR BECAUSE HOBOKEN IS KNOWN
AS THE MODEL CITY IN NORTH
AMERICA FOR VISION ZERO.
THEY HAVE NOT HAD A TRAFFIC
FATALITY SINCE 2018 AND ONE
OF THEIR PRINCIPLES IS
SOMETHING CALLED DAYLIGHT'S
INTERSECTIONS AND WHAT THEY'VE
DONE IS THEY BUILT OUT AND
PROVIDED MORE CEMENT AS WE DO
AT INTERSECTIONS.
SO IT SHORTENS THE CROSSWALK
BUT THEY ALSO DO SOMETHING THAT
WE DON'T DO AND THAT IS CREATE
ADEQUATE SITE DISTANCE AT THE
INTERSECTION.
SO THE PEDESTRIANS ARE VISIBLE
TO THE DRIVERS AND THE DRIVERS
ARE VISIBLE AND EVERYONE CAN
SEE EACH OTHER ANYWAY.
I'M GOING OFF ON A HERE IT'S
CRITICALLY IMPORTANT AND THE
OTHER THING THEY DO IS THEY PUT
DIAGONAL STRIPING AT
INTERSECTIONS SO THAT FOR
TWENTY FEET BEFORE THE
CROSSWALK CARS CANNOT PARK AND
THAT IS STRICTLY ENFORCED.
>> MICHIGAN HAS A STATE LAW BUT
WE DON'T ENFORCE IT AS
AGGRESSIVELY AND IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT AND THERE ARE MANY
LESSONS TO LEARN FROM LOOKING
AT HOBOKEN AND I HOPE THAT OUR
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT DOES
.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR HAYNER.
>> THANK YOU, MR MAYOR.
I WAS A I WAS SENT A COPY
OF SUGGESTIONS OF RULES CHANGES
THAT ARE BOUNCING AROUND
SOMEWHERE INTERNALLY HERE AT
CITY COUNCIL AND USE LIKE A RED
LINE COPY AND IT'S NICE TO SEE
SO MANY PEOPLE HERE TO SPEAK TO
HAVE PUBLIC HEARINGS AND I'D
LOVE LISTENING TO THE
COMMUNITY.
I'D LIKE TO TAKE NOTES ABOUT
WHAT PEOPLE SAY SO YOU KNOW A
LOT OF KIND OF INTERESTING
TURNS OF PHRASES AND GENUINE
KIND OF TRUTHFUL THOUGHTS OR
WHATEVER COME OUT WHEN PEOPLE
COME OUT HERE TO SPEAK.
SO I REALLY I REALLY LOVE IT
AND BUT I WAS I WAS DISTURBED
TO SEE IN THIS RED LINE SET
OF RULES CHANGES THAT IT'S
APPARENTLY BEING PROPOSED THAT
THE TIME THAT WAS TAKEN AWAY
FROM COUNCIL MEMBERS TO SPEAK
OVER THE LAST TWO YEARS IS
BEING GIVEN BACK TO THE NEW
BODY AND THERE'S GOING TO BE
MAJOR RESTRICTIONS AND POSSIBLE
CHANGES ON THE PUBLIC COMMENT
ASPECTS AND THE COPY THAT I SAW
SHOWED DOING AWAY WITH PUBLIC
COMMENT AT THE END OF THE
MEETING SO YOU WON'T HAVE A
CHANCE TO SAY WHAT YOU GUYS
JUST DO.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO US HERE
AND REACT TO WHAT HAPPENED THAT
NIGHT?
AND I ALSO SAW A SLIGHT
EXPANSION OF THE FIFTEEN AT THE
FRONT BUT THROUGH A WHAT SEEMED
TO ME TO BE A STRANGE AND
CONVOLUTED PROCESS TO GET THOSE
SLOTS THAT YOU ALL JUST USED.
AND I ALSO SAW A TIME LIMIT
PROPOSED ON OTHER PUBLIC
HEARINGS AT 45 UNTIL IT WAS
THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK.
THAT'S BASICALLY FIFTEEN PEOPLE
OR IT MIGHT BE DONE LIKE THE
SCHOOL BOARD DOES WHERE IF THEY
HAVE, YOU KNOW, HALF AN HOUR
AND THIRTY PEOPLE SHOW UP,
EVERYBODY GETS A MINUTE BECAUSE
SOME OF THOSE CHANGES ARE VERY
DANGEROUSLY CLOSE TO VIOLATIONS
OPEN MEETINGS ACT AND OTHER
KIND OF TRADITIONS WE'VE HAD
HERE IN THIS CHAMBER.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO MENTION
AND KEEP FOLKS COME DOWN HERE
TO TO SPEAK PUBLICLY SHOULD
KEEP AN EYE ON WHAT'S HAPPENING
AND MAKE SURE THAT WE'VE
ALREADY GOTTEN RID OF A BUNCH
OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT AROUND PLANNING HERE IN
OUR CITY.
>> AND SO I WOULD HATE TO SEE
IT HAPPEN AROUND OTHER MATTERS
TO COUNCIL MEMBER ED.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
IF AND WHEN THOSE REAL CHANGES
COME TO COUNCIL, I LOOK FORWARD
TO HAVING KIND OF A DISCUSSION
ABOUT THEM.
I THINK UNFORTUNATELY WE JUST
HEARD A LOT
OF MISCHARACTERIZATIONS ABOUT
WHAT'S IN THEM.
WE HAD QUITE A DISCUSSION AT
THE ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
AND SO THAT AT NO POINT WILL
ANYONE BE CUT OFF FROM
SPEAKING.
IT ALLOWS FOR CONTINUED PUBLIC
COMMENT, PUBLISH ONE THE I
QUESTION WHETHER OR NOT I WAS
GOING TO ADDRESS THIS BUT I
THINK UNFORTUNATELY I HAVE TO
SAY SOMETHING WE HEARD FROM ONE
OF OUR PUBLIC SPEAKERS TONIGHT.
WELL, I'M NOT SURE THAT THIS IS
THE RIGHT BODY TO TALK ABOUT
CURRICULUM IN OUR PUBLIC
SCHOOLS.
I JUST WANT TO INDICATE THERE
ARE NOT TWO SIDES TO GENOCIDE.
THERE ARE TWO SIDES TO THE
HOLOCAUST.
THERE WERE AT LEAST 11 MILLION
VICTIMS OF THE HOLOCAUST
INCLUDING SIX MILLION JEWS,
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF LGBTQ
PEOPLE AND I JUST THINK IT'S
INCREDIBLY DISAPPOINTING THAT
WE CONTINUE TO SEE THIS SLOG
TOWARDS ANTISEC TISM HERE IN
THIS BODY.
>> THANKS SO MUCH IHR.
>> THANKS.
I JUST WANT TO CORRECT THE
RECORD ON A FEW
MISCHARACTERIZATIONS OF THE
RULES CHANGES THAT WILL BE
COMING.
THIS IS AN EXPANSION OF PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> IT MAKES IT EASIER FOR
PEOPLE TO GET ON THE LIST TO
COMMENT AND TO NOT HAVE TO WAIT
AROUND ALL EVENING TO ADDRESS
THIS BODY ON A AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT ON THE AGENDA RIGHT NOW.
IF THERE'S A GENERAL ISSUE YOU
WANT TO BRING TO COUNCIL, YOU
HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL THE VERY
END.
SO THIS ALLOWS FOR EXPANDING
PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING SO THAT PEOPLE
WHO WANT TO ADDRESS BOTH AN
ISSUE ON THE AGENDA OR JUST A
GENERAL MATTER CAN DO SO
WITHOUT HAVING TO WAIT AROUND
ALL EVENING.
IT ALSO RESTORES THE THREE
MINUTES FOR THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
AT THE BEGINNING PARTIALLY
BECAUSE IT DOES REMOVE THE
COUNCIL MEMBER COMMENT AT THE
END AND THERE ARE NO CHANGES TO
PUBLIC HEARINGS AS WAS STATED
INCORRECTLY.
>> SO IT'S DISAPPOINTING TO SEE
THESE CHANGES MISCHARACTERIZED
.
>> IF THE COUNCIL MEMBER HAD A
QUESTION HE COULD VERY WELL
HAVE RAISED IT WITH ANY ONE
OF US ON ADMINISTRATION
COMMITTEE INSTEAD OF USING THIS
BODY TO PROMOTE MISINFORMATION
THAT ONCE AGAIN AIMS TO SOWED
SEEDS OF DISTRUST IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
>> I'D LIKE TO USE OUR GRANTED
PERSONAL I LIKE TO INTERRUPT
THERE BECAUSE HE'S
MISCHARACTERIZING MY WORDS.
>> I'M ONLY TELLING YOU WHAT I
READ.
I'M TELLING YOU WHAT THIS IS
NOT PUBLISH IT.
>> LET THE PUBLIC DECIDE
COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL GRANT
THANK I WON'T BELABOR THE
POINTS ABOUT THE ADMIN
COMMITTEE.
I THINK THEY'VE BEEN
COVERED WELL OTHER THAN TO SAY
THAT WE ALSO HAD SOME EXCELLENT
INPUT AND ASSISTANCE FROM OUR
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND SO THANK
YOU MISS KAREN.
MR. MCDONALD FOR THAT.
I THINK WHAT WILL BE COMING
FORWARD, YOU KNOW, IS INTENDED
TO MAKE TO MAKE THINGS BETTER
AND TO MAKE THINGS EASIER FOR
THE PUBLIC TO PARTICIPATE AT
THE BEGINNING OF THE MEETING
WHICH WHICH MANY OF US FEEL IS
MORE DEMOCRATIC, I WOULD LIKE
TO ENCOURAGE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
YOU KNOW, WITH THE ELECTION
COMING UP, THERE ARE LOTS
OF THERE'S LOTS OF GREAT
INFORMATION SESSIONS OUT THERE,
PROGRAMS AROUND VOTING AROUND
DIFFERENT BALLOT INITIATIVES.
SO IF YOU'RE STILL UNDECIDED
ABOUT ANY OF THOSE THINGS OR
WANT INFORMATION THERE, YOU
KNOW THERE'S LOTS
OF INFORMATION ABOUT AND JUST
WANTED TO RECOGNIZE OUR CLERK'S
OFFICE ESPECIALLY FOR WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON CAMPUS.
>> IT'S JUST IT'S A BEAUTIFUL
THING AND IT MAKES I I ALWAYS
LIKE GOING TO THE POLLS ON
ELECTION DAY BUT TO MAYBE BE
ABLE TO GO TO CAMPUS AND HAVE A
BUTTON THAT THAT SAYS VOTE DO
2022 IS JUST MAYBE TOO GOOD
OF AN OPPORTUNITY TO PASS UP SO
BUT THERE THERE ARE BEAUTIFUL
SPACES THERE SPACES THAT ARE
YOU KNOW THAT WHERE WE SEE THE
INTERSECTION OF OF ART AND
DEMOCRACY AND ENGAGEMENT AND
AND GETTING LOTS OF YOUNG
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN LOCAL, STATE
AND NATIONAL POLITICS AND
THAT'S JUST A WONDERFUL THING.
SO KUDOS TO OUR CLERK'S OFFICE
FOR AN EXPANSION OF WHAT
ALREADY WAS AN INCREDIBLY
SUCCESSFUL PROGRAM.
>> LET'S REMEMBER BRIGS, MY
COMMENTS ARE A CONTINUATION
PRAISE FOR THE CITY CLERK'S
OFFICE.
I WANTED TO SAY KUDOS MISS
BEAUDRY AND THE STAFF THERE FOR
THE PARTNERSHIP THAT THEY'VE
BEEN DOING WITH THE UVM MUSEUM
OF ART FOR FOLKS THERE ARE NOW
AND THEIR EFFORTS TO INCREASE
ESA PARTICIPATION AND ACCESS TO
VOTING IN OUR COMMUNITY.
WE NOW HAVE TWO ON CAMPUS
LOCATIONS TO VOTE AT THE ART
MUSEUM AND THEN AT THE DATA
CENTER AS WELL.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
THERE'S A WONDERFUL PUBLIC ART
INSTALLATION DUE TO A AS WELL
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO GO
CHECK THAT OUT.
I STILL NEED TO SEE IT AND
THERE WAS WONDERFUL EVENT ON
FRIDAY ABOUT AROUND VOTING AND
POLITICS AND POLICY.
SO THANKS FOR ALL THAT
PARTICIPATION AND AND ALSO WELL
I'LL JUST LEAVE IT THERE.
>> THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION AT
THE REGULAR SESSION OF OCTOBER
3RD 2022 TO THE HARBOR AREA
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY CHRIS
ALLEN TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY THRUST
NICHOLAS
STEPHEN BRUMMER
DANIELLE VAUGHN HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
BRIGGS SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN
BRITISH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> THEY ARE APPROVED.
>> I'D ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION AT THE
HOUSING HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD JAMES DOWLING AND JAMES
DANIEL TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
SARAH PATES MEYER AND TO THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION BRANDON
BOND.
I HAD THE PLEASURE OF BEING IN
WASHINGTON DC LAST WEEK IN
CONNECTION WITH THE WHITE HOUSE
COMMUNITIES ACTION PROGRAM AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE WHITE HOUSE
TO ENGAGE A NUMBER OF ELECTED
OFFICIALS AND NONPROFIT AND
OTHER LEADERS IN MICHIGAN AS TO
THE WORK THAT HAD BEEN DONE IN
MICHIGAN RESULTING FROM THE
AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN THE AND
THE INFLATION RELIEF AND
OF COURSE TO THE ARTPOP THE THE
THE INFRASTRUCTURE BILL RATHER
IN ANY EVENT IT WAS EXCITING TO
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO TALK
WITH ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS
INCLUDING ANN ARBOR.
GENE SPERLING AND MICHIGANDER
JENNIFER GRANHOLM, SECRETARY
GRANHOLM ABOUT THE GOOD THINGS
THAT ARE GOING ON HERE IN
MICHIGAN AND WITH PARTICULARITY
THE THINGS THAT ARE GOING ON IN
ANN ARBOR AND FURTHER THE
THINGS THAT THAT THE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENERGY AND
OTHER RECREATIONAL PROJECTS
THAT WOULD BE SUITABLE FOR
FUTURE FEDERAL ENGAGEMENT THAT
COULD INCREASE THE GOOD STORIES
THAT WE HAVE INCREASED THE GOOD
SUCCESSES WE HAVE FROM OUR
COOPERATION WITH OUR FEDERAL
OUR FEDERAL OFFICIALS ON WORK
THAT WE'RE DOING HERE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
AND SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
OCCURRED AND I JUST WANTED TO
READ THAT UP NOW THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA, MOVE BY COUNCIL NO
BRAKES SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
>> OUR DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER BREEKS
YEAH, I WOULD LIKE TO SEE A
FOURTEEN AND ALSO JUST MAKE A
QUICK COMMENT AROUND FIVE WHICH
IS THE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE
THE PURCHASE OF THE THREE OR
TWO MULHOLLAND AVENUE WHICH I
SUPPORT BUT JUST WANTED TO MAKE
A NOTE THAT THAT PARCEL HAS
BEEN USED FOR AN INNOVATIVE
URBAN FLOWER FARM AND ARTIST
RESIDENCY PROGRAM PREVIOUSLY.
AND WHILE THOSE FOLKS HAVE
MOVED OFF I JUST WANTED TO
MENTION TO STAFF THAT I AM
GETTING MESSAGES FROM COMMUNITY
MEMBERS THAT MIGHT WANT TO
PARTNER FOR A PROJECT MOVING
FORWARD AND SO, YOU KNOW, IF IF
A CRITICAL MASS IS REACHED,
I'LL CERTAINLY REACH OUT TO
STAFF TO SEE IF THERE MIGHT BE
SOME WAY THAT WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO CONTINUE SOME SORT
OF DEMONSTRATION URBAN GARDEN
AT THAT POINT.
KELSEY MAHINA, THANKS.
JUST IF I MAY JUST MAKE A
REMARK ON A COUPLE THERE'S NO
NEED TO PULL THIS OFF BUT ON
CSI I THINK THAT'S THAT'S AN
EXAMPLE OF WHERE THE VOTES ARE.
YOU'LL SEE ON THE AGENDA TODAY
EIGHT VOTES ARE REQUIRED AND
IT'S BECAUSE IT'S OUT OF BUDGET
EXPENSE.
WE DIDN'T BUDGET FOR THIS BUT
IN THIS CASE IT'S WHOLLY
APPROPRIATE TO ASK FOR EIGHT
VOTES AND TO TAKE THIS ACTION
OUT OF THE BUDGET CYCLE BECAUSE
AN OPPORTUNITY LIKE, YOU KNOW,
AN OPPORTUNITY ARISES SOMETIMES
WE PURCHASE OF PROPERTY OR
SOMETHING CHANGES THIS PROPERTY
IS AND WE'RE USING STORMWATER
FUND FUNDS BECAUSE WE'RE TRYING
TO GET RID OF PROPERTIES THAT
SIT IN HARMS WAY FROM FLOODING
AND THERE'S SOME HOPE THAT THE
GREEN THE TREE LINE WOULD TAKE
CARE OF SOME OF THAT MAYBE.
BUT YOU KNOW THE SAME.
ON THE OTHER HAND, WE ARE
ALLOWING ALL KINDS OF THINGS.
FEMA MADE PROVISION FOR STUFF
TO EXIST BASICALLY IN THE
HISTORICAL CENTER LINE UP HERE
AND RIVER AND SO IT'S KIND
OF AN ODD TOSS UP HERE.
BUT THIS IS A CASE WHERE EIGHT
VOTES TO VOTE FOR SOMETHING ON
A BUDGET IS A PROBLEM.
BUT WHENEVER YOU SEE IT ON THE
AGENDA IT MEANS THAT WE DIDN'T
BUDGET FOR IT.
THERE'S ALL KINDS OF MONEY
THERE ALL THE TIME AND THESE
ARE ALL ADD ON TO OUR FIVE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY MILLION
DOLLAR ANNUAL BUDGET RIGHT NOW.
SO WE SPEND OVER ONE POINT ONE
BILLION DOLLARS EVERY TWO YEARS
TO RUN YOUR CITY AND YOU KNOW
WE'RE A SMALL PART OF YOUR TAX
DOLLARS SO A LOT OF MONEY FLOWS
THROUGH THIS COMMUNITY AND SO
ANY EXCUSES THAT WE HAVE TO NOT
DO THE RIGHT THINGS SOCIALLY
AND MORALLY ARE SHOULD FALL ON
DEAF EARS.
>> CAN WE SPEND A LOT OF MONEY
HERE IN ANN ARBOR?
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA OPPOSED TO SET
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED WITH 10
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO A
THREE S.A FIVE SIX SEVEN,
EIGHT, NINE, TEN FOURTEEN
RESOLUTION TO AUTHORIZE AN
AGREEMENT WITH BLUE CROSS BLUE
SHIELD OF MICHIGAN OPTIMUM
MEMBER FOR PHARMACY BENEFIT
MANAGEMENT SERVICES EFFECTIVE
JANUARY ONE, 2023 IN THE AMOUNT
OF EIGHT MILLION NINE HUNDRED
SIXTY FOUR THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
SIXTY EIGHT DOLLARS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER IRA
DISCUSSION OF C14 COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH I'D LIKE TO THANK ALL
OF THE ACTIVISTS THAT ARE IN
THE ROOM THIS EVENING AND WE'RE
RALLYING OUTSIDE OF CITY HALL
EARLIER TONIGHT I'M BRINGING
ATTENTION TO THE CORPORATE
PRACTICES OF COMPANIES LIKE
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD
OF MICHIGAN AND DELTA DENTAL
AND IN A NUMBER OF OTHERS WE
ARE SEEING REALLY EGREGIOUS
BEHAVIOR FROM THESE MICHIGAN
CORPORATIONS THEIR YOU KNOW,
THE THEY'RE THE BIGGEST FUNDER
OF EXTREMIST POLITICIANS.
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD
OF MICHIGAN IS THE BIGGEST
FUNDER OF EXTREMIST POLITICIANS
IN MICHIGAN FUNDING VOTER
SUPPRESSION EFFORTS AND IT IS
DISAPPOINTING TO SEE TO KNOW
THAT WHEN WE APPROVE IF WE
APPROVE THIS CONTRACT THAT BLUE
CROSS BLUE SHIELD CAN THEN USE
THESE FUNDS TO THEN CONTINUE TO
SUPPORT EXTREMIST POLITICIANS
AND MOVE FORWARD LEGISLATION IN
MICHIGAN THAT WE HAVE
UNANIMOUSLY AT THIS BODY
SUGGESTED EARLIER LAST YEAR
THAT WE DID NOT SUPPORT WE HAVE
LATER ON THE AGENDA DC TWO THAT
WILL TALK ABOUT HOW WE CAN
CHANGE THIS MOVING FORWARD.
BUT I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
DISCUSS THIS THIS CONTRACT AND
A LITTLE MORE LENGTH TONIGHT
FOR THE DISCUSSION
CANCER.
I HAVE MUCH TO SAY BUT I THINK
I'LL SAVE IT FOR THE FOR THE
RESOLUTION I'M I'M JUST REALLY
DISAPPOINTED THAT TO BE TAKING
THIS VOTE TONIGHT IT FEELS
WRONG.
I WISH WE HAD A DIFFERENT
OPTION BUT WE DON'T AT THIS
TIME ANYWAY AND OUR EMPLOYEES
NEED THEIR BENEFITS.
>> THAT'S IMPORTANT.
BUT THE ACTIONS OF BLUE CROSS I
WILL ADDRESS WHEN WE WHEN WE
GET TO THE RESOLUTION HERE IN
THE GENERAL COUNCIL RAINER YEAH
.
THANK YOU.
>> YES.
YOU MAY HAVE HEARD THE
FORESHADOWING THAT THERE'S A
RESOLUTION THAT'S GOING TO DEAL
WITH SUPPOSEDLY DEAL WITH THIS
TYPE OF THING.
WE YOU KNOW, WE SPEAK AS A BODY
AND I DON'T ALWAYS AGREE WITH
WHAT WE SAY AND SOME OF THE I
MEAN IT'S DISAPPOINTING TO HAVE
TO SAY THIS BUT IT'S A FACT
THESE ARE THE FACTS AND WE HAVE
TO RULE FACTS THAT CORPORATION
IN THE UNITED STATES
CORPORATIONS ARE PEOPLE AND
I'VE SAID ALSO SAD TO REPORT
THAT POLITICAL DONATIONS ARE
CONSIDERED FREE SPEECH IN AT
VERY LEAST CONSIDERED SPEECH
AND SO, YOU KNOW, AS A I MEAN
DOING THE BUSINESS OF RUNNING A
CITY WHICH IS REALLY WHAT WE'RE
HERE FOR FIRST IN MY OPINION
SOMETIMES YOU COME UP AGAINST
THIS AND THERE'S ALL KINDS
OF WAYS TO ADDRESS IT.
WE COULD ASK FOR OUR VEBA TRUST
IN OUR BOARD TO DO OUR
RETIREMENT PLANNING TO DIVEST
FROM FOSSIL FUEL CORPORATION IS
AN EXAMPLE WE FAILED TO DO THAT
IN THE PAST MOSTLY BECAUSE
OF THE COST IF I RECALL THE
CONVERSATION.
>> SO THERE'S THERE'S WAYS TO
ADDRESS THIS THAT AREN'T
PUSHING IN TO THE FINE LINE
BETWEEN SPEECH, PROTECTED
SPEECH, FREE SPEECH, CORPORATE
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES BECAUSE
WE ARE A CORPORATION AND
PROCUREMENT PRACTICES AS ARE
HANDED DOWN BY FEDERAL STATE
GOVERNMENT GOVERNMENTS FOR
MUNICIPALITIES TO DEAL WITH
FUNDS THAT ARE MIXED OR
COMMINGLED FUNDS.
SO I MEAN I AM GOING TO VOTE
FOR THIS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO SAY LIKE
PEOPLE TELL ME HEY, WHEN YOU GO
BUY MATERIALS YOU GO TO HOME
DEPOT.
THOSE ARE MENARD'S BECAUSE
ONE'S BAD, ONE'S BAD ONE'S BAD.
THEY ALL HAVE NASCAR TEAMS.
WHERE AM I SUPPOSED TO, YOU
KNOW, BUY MATERIALS FOR MY
WORK?
SO IT'S WE'RE TRADING ON SOME
YOU KNOW, SOME SERIOUSLY
INTERESTING CONVERSATIONS HERE.
>> SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
I'M GOING TO BE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF THE RESOLUTION ALTHOUGH I
SHARE THE SENTIMENTS OF OF MY
COLLEAGUES AS FOLKS MAY KNOW
THE CHAIR THE PRESIDENT OF BLUE
CROSS BLUE SHIELD SIGNED IN
APRIL TWENTY ONE STATEMENT
WHICH INCLUDED IN PART
ASSERTIONS THAT GOVERNMENT MUST
AVOID ACTIONS THAT REDUCE
PARTICIPATION IN ELECTIONS
PARTICULARLY AMONG HISTORICALLY
DISENFRANCHIZED COMMUNITIES
PERSONS PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES, OLDER ADULTS,
RACIAL MINORITIES AND LOW
INCOME VOTERS.
GOVERNMENT HAS A RESPONSIBILITY
TO CONTINUALLY IMPROVE AND
STRENGTHEN ELECTION
ADMINISTRATION BECAUSE PUBLIC
FAITH IN THE SECURITY INTEGRITY
OF OUR ELECTIONS IS FUNDAMENTAL
.
>> THESE PUBLIC STATEMENTS PUT
THE CHAIR ON THE SIDE
OF INCLUSION, EQUITY AND
DEMOCRACY AND THIS IS WHERE I
BELIEVE WE ALL OUGHT TO BE THE
SUPPORT OF BIG LIE
DISENFRANCHIZING ELECTORS IS I
BELIEVE INCONSISTENT WITH
PROMOTION OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY
AND INCONSISTENT WITH WITH THE
VALUES EXPRESSED IN THAT APRIL
21 COMMUNICATION AS I THINK
WE'LL GET ON INTO D.C. TO THAT
INCONSISTENCY IS TROUBLING.
>> WE WE HAVE VALUES
, WE STATE
THEM AND THEN WE TAKE ACTIONS
AND THE CONSISTENCY OF OUR
VALUES WITH OUR WITH OUR
ACTIONS AS IMPORTANT AS OUR GO
ON TO SAY IN OUR NEXT ON THAT
NEXT RESOLUTION IT BUILDS
CONFIDENCE, IT BUILDS TRUST AND
WHEN THERE IS AN ASYMMETRY,
WHEN THERE'S A DISCONNECT
BETWEEN VALUES AND ACTIONS
BREAKS TRUST, IT BREAKS
CONFIDENCE HERE I BELIEVE WE
HAVE AN INSTANCE OF A VENDOR
THAT IS BREAKING THAT TRUST BY
SUPPORTING EXTREMIST
POLITICIANS, MAKING STATEMENTS
IN SUPPORT OF DEMOCRACY AND
THEN SUPPORTING THOSE WHO DO
NOT.
THAT IS THAT'S INCONSISTENT I
BELIEVE WITH WITH PROPER WITH
PROPER ACTION.
>> IT'S INCONSISTENT WITH WITH
THE VALUES THAT ARE STATED AND
AND IT IS WELL IT'S INCREDIBLY
DISAPPOINTING HERE.
WE NEED TO PROVIDE OUR AMAZING
STAFF WITH WITH THE VALUES UPON
WHICH THEY'VE COME TO RELY AND
I WILL BE GOING FORWARD AND
DOING THAT ABSOLUTELY.
BUT WE WILL ALSO BE LOOKING I
THINK I'M HOPING TO TO LEARN
BETTER OVER TIME.
HOW ARE HOW OUR VENDORS ARE
ACTING IN A MANNER THAT IS
CONSISTENT WITH THEIR VALUES?
THAT IS AN IMPORTANT
CONSIDERATION.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
INFORMATION FOR US TO HAVE AND
PERHAPS IT IS INFORMATION WILL
BE ABLE TO ASCERTAIN MOVING
FORWARD FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS SORRY I
GUESS I ALSO PULLED UP THE JUNE
TWENTY TWENTY SIX PLEDGE THAT
BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD MADE A
PLEDGE TO MAKE A MEANINGFUL
CHANGE AND AS WE'RE ABOUT TO
APPROVE THIS AND BECOME QUITE A
SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER FOR THEM
THIS COMING YEAR, I'D LIKE TO
CALL OUT WHAT THEY HAVE PLEDGED
TO DO WHICH IS TO MAKE
MEANINGFUL CHANGE BUT TO THEY
PLEDGE TO ACT FIRST AND
FOREMOST TO TAKE TANGIBLE STEPS
TO STOP INJUSTICES IN OUR
COMMUNITIES, TO REMOVE BARRIERS
PREVENTING EQUITABLE HEALTH,
WELLBEING AND SAFETY FOR ALL.
WE PLEDGE TO LISTEN AND LEARN.
WE PLEDGE TO CREATE AND
MAINTAIN A FORUM FOR OUR
ASSOCIATES TO SPEAK.
WE PLEDGE TO MAKE OUR VOICES
AND OUR ACTIONS KNOWN BOTH
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OUR COMPANY
VOICING OUR CONTEMPT AGAINST
RACISM, HATE, DISCRIMINATION
AND VIOLENCE.
WE PLEDGE TO BE PART OF A
CHANGE THAT WE WISH TO SEE AND
FINALLY TO PLEDGE TO NOT LET
THE THINGS EVER GO BACK TO THE
WAY THAT THEY WERE.
SO TONIGHT I WOULD CALL ON THEM
TO LIVE UP TO THIS PLEDGE AS
ONE OF THEIR CUSTOMERS THEY
HAVE MADE THIS PLEDGE
FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
IT'S APPROVED.
THERE ARE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
TODAY.
MY APOLOGIES GRIZZLED MY
APOLOGIES.
LET'S ROLL CALL VOTE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBERS WILL
CONSIDER GRISWOLD NO COUNSELOR
SONG YES FELSBERG GRANT YES
KAZMIR DENHA YES RETAILOR YES
CUSTOMER IGHER YES.
ELSMERE NELSON YES.
ELSMERE BRIGGS YES THAT'S MY
ROOM LAUE APSA CUSTOMER AIGNER
NO CUSTOMER DISH YES MOTION
CARRIES OH THERE ARE NO PUBLIC
HEARINGS TODAY WE HAVE TO FORCE
THE REGULAR SESSION MEETI
MINUTES OF OCTOBER THREE TWENTY
TWENTY TWO MAY THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER IHR
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG'S DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES WELL IN FAVOR POSED THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE CHANGE
ORDER NUMBER TWO INCREASE
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY INC FOR
THE 2022 BENDEMEER PARK BRIDGE
REPAIRS RENOVATIONS PROJECT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT
VISCOUNTS MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED DC
TO RESOLUTION REGARDING
CONSISTENCY OF CORPORATE
EXPRESSION OF VALUES AND
CORPORATE ACTION MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER AH SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
COUNCIL PRIOR.
THANK YOU AND THANK YOU TO ALL
THE ACTIVISTS WHO ARE HERE
TONIGHT AND WHO RALLIED
OUTFRONT BEFORE OUR MEETING I
WAS HONORED TO JOIN YOU AND TO
STAND WITH YOU AND YOUR IN THE
COALITION TO TO DEFEND BLACK
VOTERS IN MICHIGAN HERE IN ANN
ARBOR RACIAL EQUITY AND VOTER
ACCESS TO VALUES THAT WE HOLD
DEAR.
THESE ARE LONG HELD VALUES IN
OUR CITY AND YOU KNOW, EVEN
JUST IN THE PAST COUPLE
OF YEARS THAT I'VE BEEN ON
COUNCIL, WE HAVE TAKEN STEPS
FORWARD.
WE'VE PASSED THE CROWN ACT.
WE'VE HIRED OUR FIRST EVER DEA
DIRECTOR FOR A CITY WE HAVE
SUPPORTED NO REASON ABSENTEE
VOTING AND EARLY VOTING.
WE MADE JUNETEENTH A CITY
HOLIDAY AND AND WE OPPOSED THIS
MEASURE AS A BODY.
>> WE WE VOTED TO OPPOSE THIS
MEASURE THAT IS NOW GOING
FORWARD CALLED THE SO-CALLED
SUPPORT MY VOTE WHICH IS REALLY
THINLY VEILED VOTER SUPPRESSION
.
>> IT IS CRITICAL THAT OUR TAX
DOLLARS HERE IN ANN ARBOR
BECAUSE WE HAVE THESE VALUES DO
NOT GO FUNNELED THROUGH
CORPORATIONS TO FUND VOTER
PPRESSION AND TO FUND
LEGISLATION THAT RESULTS IN
FURTHER RACIAL INEQUITY IN OUR
STATE.
I THOUGHT BLUE CROSS BLUE
SHIELD SHARED OUR VALUES.
IT'S BEEN REFERENCED THAT THE
CEO DUNLAP SIGNED A LETTER IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE WITH OTHER
CEOS SPEAKING OUT AGAINST THIS
EXACT TYPE OF LEGISLATION THAT
IS NOW BEING FUNDED WITH THEIR
DOLLARS.
WHAT IS THAT?
>> I IT'S IT'S A GUT PUNCH TO
KNOW THAT OUR TAX DOLLARS ARE
BEING USED IN THIS MANNER
BECAUSE THEY ARE RECEIVING
MILLIONS.
WE JUST APPROVED EIGHT ALMOST
NINE MILLION MORE GOING TO BLUE
CROSS AND WHEN OUR MAYOR
REACHED OUT AND TRIED TO OPEN A
DIALOG WITH THE CEO DAN LEPP,
HE GOT THE STIFF ARM.
SO TONIGHT I WANT TO CALL ON
BLUE CROSS.
I WANT TO CALL ON DELTA DENTAL
TO START PRACTICING WHAT THEY
PREACH.
THEIR WORDS ARE EMPTY UNTIL
THEY BACK THEM UP WITH ACTION
AND THAT ACTION RIGHT NOW MEANS
THAT THEY NEED TO TELL THESE
EXTREMIST VOTERS PRESSING
LEGISLATORS, THESE BIG LIE
PROMOTERS THAT THEY'VE CROSSED
A LINE AND AND THEY SHOULDN'T
GET ANY FUNDING UNTIL THEY STOP
IT.
>> COUNCIL MODISH
I WANT TO
THANK THE ACTIVISTS TO DEFEND
BLACK VOTERS COALITION WHO ARE
WITH US IN THIS ROOM AND THOSE
WHO ARE NOT ACTUALLY TWO FOR
ALL THE RESEARCH YOU'VE DONE
TODAY LIKE THE HYPOCRITICAL
ADVOCACY OF BLUE CROSS BLUE
SHIELD, IT TAKES A LOT OF WORK
TO DO THAT KIND OF ANALYSIS AND
THAT YOU TOOK THE TIME TO DO
THAT WORK PUTS POWERFUL FACTS
IN OUR HAND AND IN YOURS TO
DAYLIGHT.
JUST HOW JUST HOW INCONSISTENT
BESI BIAS IS.
>> THAT'S AN INTERESTING
ACRONYM FOR THAT EMPHASIS ON
THE B.S. I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU
CAN AFFIRM AS BLUE CROSS BLUE
SHIELD DID PUBLICLY ON APRIL 20
21 AND THE MAYOR MENTIONED
EARLIER THAT PUBLIC FAITH IN
THE SECURITY AND INTEGRITY
OF OUR ELECTIONS IS FUNDAMENTAL
AND THEN GO ON TO DONATE TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS TO SOME
OF THE TWO FOUR STATE LAWMAKERS
WHO TRIED TO ENTER THE STATE
CAPITOL BUILDING SO THAT A
GROUP OF REPUBLICANS COULD CAST
A BALLOT FOR FAKE ELECTORS WHO
WOULD VOTE FOR THE PREVIOUS
HOLDER OF THE OFFICE.
THOSE FAKE ELECTORS ARE NOW
UNDER FEDERAL INVESTIGATION.
SO WHAT IS BLUECROSS BLUESHIELD
DOING MIXING OUR TAXPAYER MONEY
WITH THOSE PEOPLE AND THANK YOU
FOR FINDING OUT THAT FACT
BECAUSE YOU ARE RIGHT THAT
MONEY IS POWER.
BUT YOU ARE ALSO RIGHT THAT THE
VOTE OF THE ORGANIZED PEOPLE IS
POWER AND SO ARE FACTS.
AND I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
THE WORK THAT YOU'VE DONE TO
BRING THEM TO LIGHT
KALTENBRUNNER THANK YOU SO WHEN
I READ THESE WHEN I READ THIS
RESOLUTION THERE'S TO RESOLVE
CLAUSE AT THE END AND ONE IS I
MEAN I I WILL SUM UP MY THE
TAKE FROM READING THIS AT THE
FIRST ONE IS THAT WE ARE
CALLING ON THESE CORPORATIONS
WHEN THEY SAY ONE THING TO ACT
THAT WAY YOU SAY ONE THING WHEN
THEY DO ANOTHER THAT'S NOT WHAT
WE'RE LOOKING FOR FROM ANYBODY
.
AND SO I ESSENTIALLY SEE THAT
FIRST RESOLVE CLAUSE AS A CALL
TO END.
YOU KNOW, VARIOUS HYPOCRISIES
THAT EXIST IN OUR SOCIETY AND
COMMUNITY AND BOARDS AND
BUSINESSES AND EVERYWHERE ELSE.
THE SECOND ONE IS ASKING THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO REPORT TO
CITY COUNCIL ON THE FEASIBILITY
OF INCLUDING IN OUR PROCUREMENT
POLICIES AND EVALUATION WHETHER
POTENTIAL VENDORS POLITICAL
ACTIVITIES ARE BEING PUT FORTH
AND A HYPOCRITICAL WAY.
SO ARE THEY SAYING ONE THING
AND ONE ANOTHER AND YOU KNOW,
AGAIN, AS I SAID EARLIER, I
THINK THAT'S A FINE LINE WE'RE
WALKING ON.
>> I MEAN I SURELY THE IRONY IS
NOT LOST ON THAT'S JUST A ROOM
FULL OF INTELLIGENT AND
ACTIVIST FOLKS THAT EVERYONE
SAID HOW WE HAVE TO ACT TO MAKE
CHANGES.
WE HAVE DARED DIRECT ACTION.
WE HAVE TO
SEIZE THE
OPPORTUNITIES THAT ARE BEFORE
US TO SHUT THESE KINDS
OF THINGS DOWN.
>> AND YET WHEN WE WENT AROUND
THE TABLE EVERYBODY VOTED FOR
THE BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD
CONTRACT.
>> WE SAID NO TO THAT.
>> I SAID NO TO IT.
COUNCILWOMAN GRISWOLD SAID NO
TO IT.
I THAT'S HYPOCRISY RIGHT HERE
AT THE TABLE AND I'M SORRY BUT
IT IS THAT'S MY VIEW.
SAY YOU KNOW I MEAN IT MEAN
WHAT YOU SAY SAY NO.
SEND THAT CONTRACT BACK.
FIND SOMEBODY ELSE IF YOU'RE
NOT DOING THAT WHAT ARE WE
DOING HERE?
WHAT IS THAT TO DO THAT I'M
SORRY.
I MEAN I DON'T I DON'T DISAGREE
WITH THESE WHERE THIS SEA
WHEREAS STATEMENTS ON THIS I
TAKE I'M GOING TO THINK ABOUT
BECAUSE I DON'T KNOW THAT OUR
PROCUREMENT I'M CONCERNED ABOUT
PREVIOUS CHANGES WE MADE TO OUR
PROCUREMENT THAT CLEARLY ARE
ADVANTAGING ONE GROUP
OF VENDORS OVER ANOTHER AND
THAT'S WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
HERE TOO.
AND I THINK IT'S RUBBING VERY
CLOSE TO THE DESPITE OUR LEGAL
TEAM'S ASSURANCES APPARENTLY
THAT'S RUBBING VERY CLOSE TO
WHAT'S ALLOWED UNDER STATE AND
FEDERAL PROCUREMENT LAWS AND
YOU KNOW, IF THAT'S WHERE HE
NEVER WANTS TO STAND UP AND PUT
OUR LEGAL TEAM TO WORK TO
DEFEND OUR RIGHT TO DO THAT,
THEN THEN WE'LL PASS THIS AND
THAT'S WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN THE
FUTURE AND THAT'S YOU KNOW,
THAT'S FINE AND THAT'S
CERTAINLY OUR RIGHT TO DO THAT.
AND YOU KNOW, WE'LL SEE IF
WE'RE GOING TO SEIZE THIS
MOMENT TO TO MAKE THOSE
CHANGES.
SO I'LL RESERVE MY TIME IF I
SPEAK AGAIN.
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS.
YES.
SO IT'S EASY TO TO DO
GRANDSTANDING WHEN YOU KNOW TEN
OTHER FOLKS ARE GOING TO TO
VOTE A CERTAIN WAY.
BUT THE REALITY IS WE HAVE
PROCUREMENT POLICIES AND
PROCESSES THAT WE HAVE TO
FOLLOW AND THE QUESTION IS WHAT
ARE WE GOING TO DO MOVING
FORWARD?
>> I THINK THAT THERE IS THIS
IS A CHALLENGE IS A CHALLENGING
ISSUE.
I REALLY APPRECIATE DEFEN BLACK
VOTERS COALITION COMING TO US
WITH THIS AND IN PUSHING US TO
DO MORE AND WE'VE BEEN WE'VE
BEEN DOING WORK IN THIS
COMMUNITY.
WE'VE SHIFTED OUR PROCUREMENT
POLICIES FROM LOWEST PRICED
BEST VALUE AND WE'RE WORKING TO
ALIGN HOW THE BIDS THAT WE THAT
WE APPROVE WITH THE VALUES
OF OUR COMMUNITY AND THE
QUESTION THAT I HAVE FOR OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND STAFF
MOVING FORWARD IS WHAT OUR WHAT
ARE THE OTHER CHANGES?
WHAT OTHER PIECES CAN WE
INCORPORATE INTO OUR
PROCUREMENT POLICIES SO THAT WE
CAN AT LEAST DAYLIGHT WHAT IS
GOING ON AND THAT'S WHAT'S
BEING ASKED FOR HERE IT IS YOU
CAN IMAGINE HOW MANY HOW MANY
VENDORS THE CITY WORKS WITH ON
A REGULAR BASIS.
AND SO GOING THROUGH THE
EXERCISE OF DOING THIS WITH
EVERY SINGLE VENDOR COULD BE
VERY CHALLENGING RIGHT TO MIND
WHETHER OR NOT THEIR POLITICAL
SPENDING IS IN LINE WITH THEIR
VALUES.
AND SO WE NEED TO FIND A WAY
THAT WE CAN DO THIS IN A IN A
WAY THAT'S DOESN'T BECOME A
FULL TIME JOB FOR FOUR PEOPLE
IN THE ORGANIZATION BUT IS
ACTUALLY SOMETHING THAT MOVES
OUR CITY FORWARD AND OUR
COMMUNITY FOR IT IN TERMS
OF HOW WE ALIGN OUR THE
CONTRACTS THAT WE'RE APPROVING
.
SO I KNOW THIS IS NOT AN EASY
TASK FOR OPENING IN OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR'S DESK, OUR OUR
PROCUREMENT OFFICE OR OUR CITY
ATTORNEYS.
BUT I HOPE THAT THEY'LL COME
BACK AND I HOPE THAT THEY'LL
WORK WITH WORK WITH THE
COALITION TO FIND PERHAPS A
MODEL APPROACH TO THIS THAT
COULD WORK FOR OTHER
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE STATE
THAT ARE INTERESTED IN DOING
THIS.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
WHAT THEY BRING BACK TO US AND
AND YOU KNOW, LOOKING FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD IN SOME CAPACITY.
>> CALIBUR, THANK YOU.
GRANDSTANDING IS RIGHT.
THIS COUNCIL MEMBER ON THE END
TOOK A SYMBOLIC VOTE KNOWING
THAT THE REST OF US WOULD CARRY
IT.
>> BUT I KNOW THIS PRIVILEGE
UNDER OUR RULES BUT I KNOW THAT
THE WHAT ON WHAT GROUNDS THAT
OUR RULES STATE CLEARLY THAT
YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO
CHARACTERIZE ANOTHER COUNCIL
MEMBERS COMMENTS AND THAT'S ALL
THAT'S HAPPENING HERE TONIGHT.
I'M GRANDSTANDING.
I'M THIS.
I'M THAT PLEASE MR. MAYOR.
ENFORCE OUR BODIES RULES.
>> BUT I WOULD NOTE THAT THIS
THAT THE SAME COUNCIL MEMBER
VOTED AGAINST OUR BEST VALUE
PROCUREMENT POLICY THAT ALIGNS
OUR VALUES WITH OUR PROCUREMENT
AND ALLOWS US TO MAKE DECISIONS
EXACTLY LIKE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT RIGHT NOW.
SO THAT'S WHAT MATTERS AGAIN,
WORDS ARE WORDS, ACTIONS AND
VOTES ARE WHAT MATTERS AND I'M
REALLY PLEASED THAT THE
MAJORITY OF THIS BODY SUPPORTED
THE BEST VALUE CONTRACTING
POLICY AND IF THERE'S A
PROPOSAL THAT'S BROUGHT FORTH
TO US THAT FROM OUR ATTORNEYS
AND OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR THAT
WILL ALLOW US TO INCORPORATE
THIS POLITICAL ACTIVITY
COMPONENT, I FEEL STRONGLY THAT
THAT WE WILL SUPPORT THAT AS
WELL BECAUSE WE HAVE ALREADY
PROVEN THAT WE WANT TO ALIGN
OUR VALUES WITH HOW WE SPEND
OUR TAX DOLLARS.
I WANT TO MAKE ONE FURTHER
POINT ABOUT WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT HERE.
THIS IS NOT A PARTIZAN ISSUE.
THIS IDEA OF ELECTION DENIALISM
IS ITS CORE TO OUR DEMOCRACY
AND WE SHOULD ALL REPUBLICANS
AND DEMOCRATS OF GOODWILL BE
SPEAKING OUT AGAINST THIS.
SO WHEN C WHEN BLUE CROSS SAYS
WELL WE HAVE TO DONATE TO
REPUBLICANS SO WE CAN GET
LEGISLATION PASSED, THAT'S
BULL.
>> THEY CAN SAY THERE'S A LINE
IN THE SAND HERE AND IT'S GOING
TO TAKE CORPORATIONS, BIG
CORPORATIONS, BIG MONEY IN
ORDER TO DRAW THAT LINE IN THE
SAND COUNCIL TO THANK YOU.
I'D LIKE TO THINK THAT
CO-SPONSORS AND THE ACTIVISTS
FOR BEING HERE TODAY FOR ALL
OF THEIR HARD WORK WHEN THIS
CAME FORWARD IT WAS ACTUALLY
SURPRISING TO ME THAT BLUE
CROSS BLUE SHIELD CAN EVEN MAKE
POLITICAL DONATIONS BECAUSE IF
YOU LOOK AT THEIR HISTORY,
THEIR HISTORY IS BEING A
NONPROFIT NOT FOR PROFIT
ORGANIZATION THAT WHEN
HOSPITALS BECAME PLACES THAT
ONE DIDN'T GO TO DIE BUT
ACTUALLY TO GET BETTER IT WAS
ESTABLISHED THAT THAT WORKERS
AND THEIR FIRST BENEFICIARIES
OF A OF A BLUE SHIELD PLAN WERE
ACTUALLY TEACHERS IN TEXAS WHO
WANTED TO BE ABLE TO AFFORD
HOSPITAL CARE AND SO SO IF WE
LOOK AT THE ORIGINS OF THIS
COMPANY, IT WAS ONE THAT IN
MICHIGAN WAS THE FIRST PLACE TO
BE THE FIRST ORGANIZATION TO
HELP WITH MEDICARE.
IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT THEY SAY
THEIR VALUES ARE FOR THAT WHEN
THEY'RE MAKING DONATIONS TO
OTHER GROUPS, IT'S SUPPOSED TO
BE TO MAKE THE COMMUNITY
HEALTHIER.
THAT'S THEIR INTENT.
AND IF YOU LOOK ON THEIR
WEBSITE, THEY SAY THAT BLUE
CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD PUT
PEOPLE BEFORE PROFITS JUST LIKE
THEY DID IN THE PAST.
>> SO THIS IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT.
>> THINK JUST TO TO DAYLIGHT
WHAT THEY SAY THEIR VALUES ARE
TO TRY TO DO THE BEST WITHIN
OUR MEANS TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE HOLDING CORPORATIONS
ACCOUNTABLE FOR WHAT THEY SAY
THEY DO AND THAT'S REALLY WHAT
WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
>> IT'S NOT ABOUT TAKING HEALTH
CARE AWAY FROM OUR WORKING
EMPLOYEES BUT IT'S YOU NIGHT
EVEN THOUGH I'LL BE LEAVING
THIS COUNCIL I FEEL SO GOOD
ABOUT WHERE IT'S HEADING
BECAUSE I KNOW THERE'S A GROUP
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS HERE THAT
HAD IMPROVED THE PROCESSES WE
HAVE AND CARE VERY DEEPLY ABOUT
HOW THAT MOVES FORWARD AND HOW
WE CAN EXPAND ON MAKING SURE
THAT WE'RE USING OUR MONEY THAT
THAT ALIGNS WITH OUR VALUES.
SO THANKS FOR ALL THE
CO-SPONSORS.
>> COUNCILOR COUNCILOR RAINER,
THANK YOU.
IN MY OPINION THE BEST VALUES
CONTRACTING RULES WERE AN
ATTEMPT TO CREATE A VAGUE SET
OF STANDARDS THAT RIGGED THE
PROCESS FOR UNION BIDDERS AND I
THINK THAT I'VE MADE MY POINTS
ON THAT EARLIER AND THIS ONE
CREATES A VAGUE SET
OF GUIDELINES THAT MAKE WEED
OUT VENDORS BASED ON SPEECH AND
THE FIRST THE FIRST RESOLVE
CLAUSE ASKS CORPORATIONS TO
MODIFY EITHER THEIR SPEECH OR
THEIR ACTIONS AND THAT'S ALL
FINE.
AND THE SECOND ONE CREATES A
SET OF POTENTIALLY CREATES A
SET OF VAGUE GUIDELINES FOR
AWARDING CONTRACTS BASED ON
SPEECH AND I SUPPOSE IF WE WANT
TO GO DOWN THAT ROAD WE'RE
GOING TO IT'S CERTAINLY NOT
GRANDSTANDING TO POINT OUT THAT
WHEN SOMEONE SAYS ONE THING
WITH GREAT EMPHASIS AND THEN
PASSES REPEATEDLY ON
OPPORTUNITIES TO ACTUALLY PUT
THAT INTO ACTION, I DON'T KNOW
IF THAT'S GRANDSTANDING.
>> I'M ALL FOR IT IF IT TAKES
BIG MONEY TO DRAW A LINE IN THE
SAND WE JUST MISSED AN
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A HEADLINE
TOMORROW THAT SAYS THE
UNIVERSITY COUNCIL REJECTS MY
NINE MILLION DOLLAR CONTRACT
OVER CORPORATE VALUES AND IF
IT'S GRANDSTANDING TO POINT
THAT OUT THAT WORDS MEAN MORE
THAN ACTION AT THIS TABLE, I'LL
KEEP DOING IT.
I'VE BEEN DOING IT FOR FOUR
YEARS HERE AND I APPRECIATE
THESE FOLKS WHO COME IN HERE
AND THEY MEAN WHAT THEY'RE
SAYING HERE AND WE PASSED ON AN
OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE A HEADLINE
LIKE THAT AND FOR ALL THE PR
PEOPLE SITTING AT THIS TABLE
THAT'S SHOCKING TO ME
DOES
ANYBODY WHO VOTED FOR IT WANT
TO BRING IT BACK FOR
RECONSIDERATION OR DO WE JUST
WANT TO PUT TALKING POINTS ON
YOUR NEXT POLITICAL CAMPAIGN
BROCHURE?
>> AND I MEAN I'M NOT GOING I'M
I'M SORRY TO THE FOLKS WHO ARE
HERE WHO BELIEVE THIS IS THE
RIGHT THING BECAUSE I BELIEVE
IT'S RIGHT AT ITS SPIRIT BUT I
DON'T BELIEVE IT'S A PROPER WAY
TO APPLY.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD BE
CREATING VAGUE RULE SETS FOR
VENDORS WITH THE PUBLIC MONEY.
IT'S I JUST HAD A PROBLEM WITH
THAT SOMEBODY HAS TO BE A
BUDGET HAWK ON THIS BODY AND
I'LL TAKE THAT RESPONSIBILITY
AND I'LL DEFEND HIMSELF.
>> DISABILITY COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO CONTINUE TO ECHO
THE THANKS FOR THE COMMUNITY
LEADERS AND ACTIVISTS WHO ARE
HERE TONIGHT AND WHO BROUGHT
THIS FORWARD.
I ALSO WANT TO APOLOGIZE
IN
TWENTY TWENTY TWO YOU STILL
HAVE TO STAND IN THE COLD AND
RALLY FOR YOUR RIGHT TO VOTE
AND AND IF THIS SHOULDN'T
CONTINUE TO BE HAPPENING THAT
AS OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED THIS
RALLYING BY EXTREMIST
POLITICIANS AROUND EFFORTS TO
TO DENY VOTERS THE FRANCHISE OR
TO MAKE IT HARDER FOR THEM TO
CAST THEIR BALLOTS SIMPLY FOR
POLITICAL GAIN AND FOR
ELECTORAL ADVANTAGE IS
DISGUSTING.
IT'S UNDEMOCRATIC AND IT NEEDS
TO STOP AND AND I I APPLAUD THE
SPONSORS FOR BRINGING A
RESOLUTION FORWARD TO TO LOOK
AT LOOKING FORWARD ON HOW WE
CAN CONTINUE TO BE PART OF THE
SOLUTION AND TO CONTINUE TO
HOLD SOME OF THESE CORPORATIONS
ACCOUNTABLE THAT THAT ARE
SAYING ONE THING AND THEN
CONTRIBUTING TO THE VERY
ELECTED OFFICIALS THAT ARE
CONTRIBUTING TO THE PROBLEM AND
NOT JUST FRANKLY BAD POLICY
THAT THAT WOULD ATTACK VOTERS
BUT BUT THROUGH BAD PROCESS A
PROCESS THAT USURPS THE VOTERS
BY BY EXPLOITING A
CONSTITUTIONAL LOOPHOLE TO
AVOID THE GOVERNOR'S VETO OR TO
DENY THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FOUR
VOTERS TO WEIGH IN BY BY
SUBMITTING THESE PETITIONS AND
THEN ASKING THEM I A MINORITY
OF VOTERS TO SUBMIT PETITIONS
TO A LEGISLATURE THAT CAN
IMPLEMENT AN UNPOPULAR PROPOSAL
SO I AM SORRY THAT WE ARE
HAVING THIS CONVERSATION BUT I
AM GRATEFUL THAT WE ARE THAT WE
ARE LOOKING FORWARD AS TO HOW
WE CAN WE CAN CONTINUE TO
UPHOLD OUR VALUES HERE IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND CONTINUE TO HOLD
SOME OF OUR OUR CORPORATE
VENDORS ACCOUNTABLE.
AND I WOULD ASK THAT I BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR.
THANK COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I WOULD LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR TO AND I WOULD LIKE
TO ASK OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
IF HE COULD SAY A FEW WORDS
EXPLAINING THE DIFFICULT
POSITION WE WERE IN HAVING TO
CONFRONT THIS CONTRACT ON THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH NOTHING
CURRENTLY IN OUR PROCUREMENT
RULES GIVING US A GROUND TO
VOTE AGAINST IT
.
THE EMPLOYEES AND THE RETIREES
OF THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
ALREADY GET THEIR MEDICAL
CLAIMS COVERAGE UNDER BLUE
CROSS BLUE SHIELD.
WHAT YOU VOTED ON TONIGHT
ALLOWS FOR THE SCRIPT PORTION
TO FOLD UNDER THE SAME
CONTRACT.
WHEN WE LOOK AT PRICE HIKES
THAT ARE GOING TO TAKE PLACE,
WE'RE TRYING TO DO THINGS TO
KEEP COSTS TO A MINIMUM TO THE
EMPLOYEES.
>> THIS CONTRACT KICKS IN
JANUARY ONE.
>> SO IF YOU WOULD HAVE VOTED
NO TONIGHT WE WOULD NOT HAVE
HAD TIME TO DO SOMETHING ELSE
AND BE READY TO ROLL BY JANUARY
1ST AND I MAKE NO COMMENTS ON
YOUR VOTE BUT JUST FROM A
MANAGEMENT STANDPOINT WE
COULDN'T WE HAVE ONE VENDOR.
>> THIS IS IT.
EMPLOYEES HAVE TO HAVE THE
ABILITY TO GET THEIR MEDICINE.
THEY DO SO COUNCILOR COUNCILOR
GRISWOLD, DID THIS RESOLUTION
COME FROM A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION?
>> IT DID NOT.
WAS IT REVIEWED BY THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION?
>> IT WAS NOT OK.
>> AND JUST REGARDING THE
COMMENT THAT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR MADE, WE DON'T
HAVE TIME TO DO SOMETHING ELSE
BUT WE MIGHT HAVE TIME TO MAKE
A STAND AND GET THAT HEADLINE
AS WE'VE DONE WITH SOME
DEVELOPERS WE'VE SAID NO AND
THEN WE'VE NEGOTIATED AND COME
BACK.
SO SOMETIMES THERE ARE
ALTERNATIVES.
I WILL NOT BE VOTING FOR THIS
TONIGHT.
I WANT TO THANK ALL THE
ACTIVISTS I AGREE WITH THE
VISION.
>> I WORK LONG AND HARD FOR
MANY, MANY YEARS WHEN I WAS ON
THE SCHOOL BOARD AND BEFORE OR
FOR A THOROUGH COMPREHENSIVE
HIGH SCHOOL BECAUSE IT WOULD
ADD THE ABILITY FOR QUALITY
EDUCATION FOR EVERYONE AND IT
WAS MY MAIN GOAL WAS EQUITY AND
PRIOR TO THAT HIGH SCHOOL WE
ACTUALLY STAFFED BASED ON A
NUMBER OF STUDENTS DROPPING OUT
AFTER 10TH GRADE AND THAT WAS
WRONG.
SO I BELIEVE I HAVE A TRACK
RECORD OF A COMMITMENT TO
EQUITY BUT I DON'T SEE THIS AS
GOING THROUGH THE RIGHT PROCESS
.
I BELIEVE THAT IT NEEDS TO GO
BACK TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
I BELIEVE THAT OUR ORGANIZATION
,THE CITY OF BANABA DOES NOT
HAVE PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS.
IT DOES NOT HAVE METRICS.
IT DOES NOT HAVE ALL OF THE
PIECES IN PLACE TO HAVE A
PROCESS THAT WOULD ACCOMPLISH
THIS AND THERE WOULD BE MANY
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES AND
POSSIBLY IT WOULD BE MORE OF A
PAY TO PLAY IN TERMS OF WHO
WOULD BE MAKING THESE
STATEMENTS IN ORDER TO GET
CONTRACTS.
>> AND LASTLY, WE HAVE A HUGE
AMOUNT OF MONEY INVOLVED IN
LOCAL POLITICS IN ANN ARBOR WE
HAVE MANY PACS WITH UNKNOWN
AMOUNTS, THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
INVOLVED.
ANN ARBOR IS AN AREA WHERE
PEOPLE WANT TO COME AND LIVE.
THEY WANT TO COME AND DEVELOP
AND THERE IS MUCH MONEY TO BE
MADE AND THAT HAS AN INFLUENCE
.
SO I I WOULD LIKE TO REFER THIS
BACK TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND IF MY TIME IS UP
I'LL TAKE MY SECOND TIME.
>> IS THAT IS THAT A MOTION TO
REFER TO COMMITTEE MOTION TO
REFER IT TO COMMITTEE?
IS THERE A SECOND ON THAT THERE
A SECOND BY COUNCILOR HAYNER
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION REFER
BACK TO HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
.
>> I'LL JUST SAY FOR MY PART
I'M GOING TO DECLINE THAT
OPPORTUNITY ALTHOUGH THAT IT IS
I THINK NO I DON'T THINK IT
SPEAKS TO AN ENFORCEMENT
OF CITY'S NONDISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE.
I THINK THE RESOLUTION RELATES
TO THE CITY'S ENGAGED IT'S FOR
FOR ITS PROCUREMENT PRACTICES
WHICH IS OUTSIDE THAT SCOPE FOR
THE DISCUSSION ON THE REFERRAL
BACK COUNCILOR NELSON AND
HAYNER I.
I UNDERSTAND THE BEHIND
REFERRING IT BUT I ALSO
UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO HAVE
THIS PASSED AND APPROVED
TONIGHT BECAUSE THIS THIS VOTE
IS COMING UP IN NOVEMBER AND
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT
THERE ARE LOTS OF OPPORTUNITIES
FOR BODIES LIKE OURS TO MAKE
PUBLIC STATEMENTS AROUND IT.
I WOULD POINT OUT AND I SPOKE
TO ORGANIZER'S BEHIND THIS
RESOLUTION ABOUT THIS ISSUE
WHEN WHEN THIS RESOLUTION WAS
CONSIDERED BY THE WAYNE COUNTY
COMMISSION, THEY DID IDENTIFY A
WEAKNESS IN TERMS OF FRAMING IT
AROUND HYPOCRISY.
I MEAN THAT REALLY DOES FEEL
LIKE THE FOUNDATION OF THOSE
CORPORATIONS THAT HAVE
PROFESSED VALUES AND ARE
CLEARLY ACTING AGAINST THOSE
VALUES THEY ARE CLAIMING WHEN
THE WAYNE COUNTY COMMISSION
DISCUSSED THIS THEY POINTED OUT
THAT THERE ARE SOME COMPANIES
THAT DON'T EVEN PRETEND TO
POSTURE IDEALS AROUND
PROTECTING THE VOTE OR
DEMOCRACY OR IN MAKING SURE
THAT EVERYONE IS PROTECTED IN
OUR DEMOCRACY.
>> I I AM WONDERING IF WE COULD
POSSIBLY SPLIT OFF THE LAST
RESOLVE CLAUSE AND HAVE THAT
PERHAPS DISCUSSED THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION BECAUSE I
HAVE SEEN LEGAL QUESTIONS LIKE
THAT DISCUSSED VERY
INTELLIGENTLY THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION I'M SPEAKING
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THE SECOND
RESOLVED CLAUSE.
THE FIRST RESULT WAS THE ONLY
WEAKNESS I SEE THERE IS THAT WE
KEEP REFERRING TO SELF
PROFESSED VALUES WITHOUT
SPECIFIC THEN REFERRING BACK TO
WHEREAS CLAUSES AS OPPOSED TO
IDENTIFYING THEM DIRECTLY IN
THAT RESOLVE CLAUSE.
THE SECOND RESOLVED CLAUSE I
THINK THAT'S THAT'S MORE OF A
SERIOUS DISCUSSION IN THAT THAT
PIECE OF IT PROBABLY COULD FIND
A HOME FOR DISCUSSION OF THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION BUT I'M
NOT GOING TO SUPPORT REFERRING
THE WHOLE OF IT BACK TO THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION KELSO
RAYNER.
>> WELL THANKS MR MAYOR.
I SECOND THAT OF THE YOU MAY
CALL IT LIKE A TABLE COURTESY
BECAUSE I DON'T I'D LIKE TO
HEAR THE CONVERSATIONS ON THESE
THESE TOPICS AND I AGREE WITH
COUNCILWOMAN NELSON FROM THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION YOU
SAID ABOUT THAT THAT I'D
CERTAINLY LIKE TO HEAR WHAT
THEY HAVE TO SAY.
THEY'VE PUT FORWARD SOME PRETTY
GREAT THINGS OVER THE YEARS AND
WE FAIL TO ACT ON MANY OF THEM
UNFORTUNATELY.
AND I HAVE SAID IN THE PAST AND
I STILL BELIEVE THAT IN SOME
CASES THAT REFERRALS TO
COMMITTEES IS WHERE
WELL-MEANING IDEAS GO TO DIE
BUT NOT ALWAYS SO GOOD.
ONCE AGAIN I'M ON THE FENCE FOR
SOMETHING I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR
WHAT PEOPLE SAY ABOUT THAT LIKE
I MEAN I DON'T WANT TO DO THIS
TO BUT BECAUSE OF THE WHEN THIS
CAME ON THE AGENDA I DIDN'T I
DIDN'T REALLY I'M NOT GOING TO
ASK FOR CLOSED SESSION TO
DISCUSS THIS BUT I BELIEVE THAT
IT WOULD BE WARRANTED THAT
CREATING PROCUREMENT RULES ARE
A DICEY PROPOSITION AND I GUESS
I'M NOT GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
REFERRAL BUT I CERTAINLY WOULD
LOVE TO HEAR WHAT HRC HAS TO
SAY ABOUT AND I WOULD LOVE TO
HEAR THAT CONVERSATION
COUNCILWOMAN ELSE AND PERHAPS
IT COULD BE ON THE AGENDA AND
OF COURSE THESE THINGS CAN BE
MODIFIED IN THE FUTURE.
YOU KNOW, IF WE CHOOSE
TO.
SO I DON'T KNOW.
I JUST WANTED TO COMMENT LIKE
THAT.
THANK FOR THE DISCUSSION OF THE
REFERRAL OF GRISWOLD.
>> MAY I WITHDRAW THE REFERRAL?
IT'S NOW THE BODIES.
IT'S NOT THE MOVERS ROLL-CALL
VOTE PLEASE ON THE REFERRAL.
SORRY IF COUNCIL MEMBERS WILL
CLOCKMAKERS YES.
>> COUNTERASSAULT NO NO NO
BECAUSE WE WERE DENHA NO MORE
NO MORE ER NO BECAUSE WE'RE
ALSO NO COUNCILOR BRICKS NO
CUSTOMER AMAWI ABSENT COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER NO COUNCILOR DISH
NO MOTION FILLES PART OF THE
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
COUNCILOR SONG.
>> SO SINCE 2013 THERE HAVE
BEEN DELIBERATE AND SUCCESSFUL
ATTEMPTS TO GUT THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT THEN AGAIN IN TWENTY
ONE SINCE TWENTY TWENTY ONE
EIGHTEEN STATES HAVE PASSED
THIRTY FOUR LAWS THAT HAVE
SOMEHOW RESTRICTED ACCESS TO
VOTING IN ACCORDING TO THE
ONGOING REVIEW BY THE BRENNAN
CENTER.
THESE LAWS WILL AFFECT VOTERS
OF COLOR MORE THAN GENERAL,
MORE THAN THE GENERAL
POPULATION AND THEY'RE CLEARLY
AIMED AT BLACK VOTERS SUCH AS
RESTRICTIONS ON SUNDAY VOTING
JUST LAST WEEK THE SUPREME
COURT LOOKED AT LOOK TO UPEND
SECTION TWO THE SECTION TWO
PROTECTION AGAINST VOTE
DILUTION OR MAKING VOTES
MEANINGLESS WITH THE CASE OUT
OF ALABAMA CONSIDERING THE
STATE'S CONGRESSIONAL MAP HERE
IN MICHIGAN IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
I SERVED ON THE EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE TO PROMOTE THE VOTE A
SUCCESSFUL BALLOT TO INCREASE
VOTER ACCESS TO ABSENTEE
BALLOTS FOR ANY REASON AND
ALLOWING FOLKS TO REGISTER TO
VOTE ON ELECTION DAY AND GIVING
VOTERS VOTERS THE OPTION TO
SELECT A STRAIGHT PARTY OPTION
.
>> THIS EFFORT WOULD INVALUABLE
DURING THE PANDEMIC INCREASING
THE ACCESS TO THE VOTE THIS
YEAR.
NEXT MONTH WE HAVE A
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT HERE
IN MICHIGAN AGAIN FOR TO
PROMOTE THE VOTE PROPOSAL TO
AND THAT SEEKS TO EXPAND THE
EXPANDED THOSE RIGHTS TO
PREEMPT EFFORTS TO ENACT
STRICTER VOTER ID LAWS AND
INTERFERE WITH A CERTIFICATION
OF FUTURE ELECTIONS.
AND THAT'S THE REAL DANGER AS
WE SEE THE 2020 ELECTION
DENIERS RUNNING FOR OFFICE HERE
IN MICHIGAN WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO ENSHRINE VOTING
RIGHTS IN OUR STATE
CONSTITUTION AND STAND OUT AS A
STATE THAT SUPPORTS EQUITABLE
ACCESS TO DIRECTOR DEMOCRACY.
SO YOUR PRESENCE TODAY, YOUR
VOICES COMING TO THE PODIUM
STANDING OUTSIDE OF THE CALL TO
CITY HALL TELLS ME THAT YOU DO
NOT WANT OUR TAX DOLLARS TO
FUND EXTREMIST POLITICAL ACTION
AGAINST ALL THIS WORK THAT
WE'VE BEEN WORKING ON SINCE
TWENTY EIGHTEEN AGAINST THIS
WAR TO PROTECT AND FIGHT FOR
VOTER RIGHTS.
>> WE ARE NOT ALABAMA RIGHT.
SO WHAT I HEAR FROM YOU IS THAT
WE NEED TO ACT NOW BECAUSE
WE'VE ALREADY LOST SO MUCH SO
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD, I'D LIKE TO
OFFER AN AMENDMENT THAT WE
STRIKE THE 2ND RESOLVE CLAUSE
AND REFER THAT TO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION ALONG WITH
WORKING WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND
COUNCILOR NELSON DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENT COUNCILOR
GRISWOLD?
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
TROUBLES ME IS THAT WE HAVE
MANY WHEREAS CLAUSES THAT WE
HAVE TO AGREE WITH AND WE HAVE
MANY VALUES AND GOALS THAT
WE'RE IN AGREEMENT WITH.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THE
SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE DOES
ANYTHING TO SUPPORT THE BALLOT
INITIATIVES ON NOVEMBER EIGHT.
I THINK THAT IS SEPARATE AND I
THINK THAT WE CAN MAKE A STRONG
STATEMENT WITH THE FIRST
RESOLVE CLAUSE WHILE GETTING
OUR HOUSE IN ORDER AND ENSURING
THAT WHAT IS DONE WITHIN CITY
ADMINISTRATION IS DONE
CORRECTLY AND DONE IN
COORDINATION WITH OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
SO WE'RE JUST ASKING WE'RE
DIRECTING HIM TO DO SOMETHING
AND I BELIEVE THAT THAT NEEDS
TO BE DONE WITH HIS COOPERATION
AND THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR GRANT.
THANK YOU.
I WON'T BE SUPPORTING THIS
AMENDMENT.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT NOT ONLY
TO THINK ABOUT WHAT'S HAPPENING
IN THE UPCOMING ELECTION BUT
HOW WE MOVE FORWARD AS A CITY.
I ALSO IF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION WANTS TO WEIGH IN
AND BE PART OF THE PROCESS,
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE TWO COUNCIL
LIAISON TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
SO THERE'S NOTHING TO STOP
THOSE LIAISONS FROM GOING TO
THE NEXT HRC MEETING TALKING
ABOUT THIS ACTION AND COUNCIL
TALKING YOU KNOW, OFFERING IF
IF THERE'S ANY INTEREST IN
BEING INVOLVED IN WEIGHING IN
ON THAT PROCESS.
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES WE'RE ABLE
TO GO TO COMMISSIONS FIRST
SOMETIMES THINGS ARE TIMELY AND
WE HAVE TO ACT AND CIRCLE BACK
ALSO JUST FOR THE PUBLIC THE
ONLY THINGS THAT ARE BINDING
AND A RESOLUTION RATHER IS
OF COURSE IS THAT WE DON'T
ACTUALLY HAVE TO AGREE ON THE
WHEREAS CLAUSES IT'S NICE WHEN
THAT HAPPENS BUT BUT WHEN WE'RE
REALLY VOTING ON THE SUBSTANCE
OF THE RESOLUTION THAT'S ON THE
RESULT.
COUNCILOR NELSON, DID YOU
COUNCILOR NELSON, THANK YOU.
>> IF THIS RESOLUTION WAS
INTERESTING TO ME WHEN I FIRST
READ IT ON BECAUSE IT IT REALLY
IS ROOTED IN HYPOCRISY AND WE
HAD THAT KIND OF HYPOCRISY
WITHIN THIS VERY AGENDA.
I THINK THE REASON THAT I CAN
BE SUPPORTIVE AND I'M
INTERESTED IN THAT SECOND
RESOLVE CLAUSE BEING A TOPIC
OF DISCUSSION ON THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION INTENTIONALLY
TOPIC AND THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION IS THAT WE HAVE SEEN
SOME REALLY INTERESTING
CHALLENGES IN OUR PROCUREMENT
PROCUREMENT POLICIES IN THE
LAST EIGHT MONTHS OR SO.
WE HAVE IF YOU LOOK AT OUR TWO
ZERO PLAN, WE HAVE LISTED AS A
COLLABORATOR 15 TIMES AND D.T.
IS A COMPANY LIKE BLUE CROSS
BLUE SHIELD THAT HAS BEEN
IDENTIFIED AS PROBLEMATIC.
I THINK I I SAID ON THE
INSURANCE BOARD I UNDERSTAND
THAT THE BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD
CONTRACT IS LIKE A LOT
OF CONTRACTS WHERE WE THE CITY
IS TOO BIG FOR SOME PROVIDERS
AND TOO SMALL FOR OTHER
PROVIDERS.
AND I APPRECIATE MR DOWNEY'S
POSITION THAT WE WE HAVE TO GET
THESE SERVICES FROM SOMEWHERE
BUT IN SITUATIONS WHERE WE HAVE
A CHOICE, MY ANXIETY IS THAT AS
WE'VE SEEN BEFORE IN A COUPLE
OF PLACES THERE ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR OUR
PROCUREMENT POLICIES TO LOOK
FAIRLY ARBITRARY AND I I AM
ALWAYS IN FAVOR OF PROMOTING
MORE PUBLIC DISCUSSION, MORE
ENGAGEMENT OF MORE PEOPLE IN
TOPICS THAT ARE STICKY LIKE US
,THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
IS EXACTLY THE PLACE WHERE THE
FOLKS ON THAT COMMISSION ARE
TASKED WITH THE TOPICS THAT ARE
ENCOMPASSED IN THIS ISSUE.
THEY ARE THEY ARE REGULARLY
COLLABORATING WITH OUR LEGAL
DEPARTMENT AROUND POLICIES AND
REFORMS THAT THEY SEND TO
COUNCIL.
SO I I APPRECIATE THAT.
YES, THERE ARE TECHNICALLY
COUNCIL LIAISON TO THAT GO TO
HRC AND COULD MENTION IT TO
THEM.
BUT I THINK THAT WE'RE MAKING A
PRETTY SERIOUS STATEMENT ABOUT
IF WE BELIEVE THAT THIS SHOULD
BE INCORPORATED IN THE
PROCUREMENT POLICIES, WE REALLY
IF WE SEE THIS AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO PROMOTE THE
VALUES OF DEMOCRACY AND
INCLUSION AND ALL OF THOSE
REALLY BIG, BIG THINGS, BIG
THINGS LIKE THAT, WE WANT TO
TALK ABOUT IT.
>> THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
THIS IS ABSOLUTELY AND OUR
WHEELHOUSE I DON'T WANT TO SEE
THIS LIKE FLY UNDER THE RADAR
IN LIKE A MEMO FROM THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WHAT THE SECOND
IS OF COURSE SAYS NOW IS THAT
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR MUST
REPORT TO COUNCIL THAT CAN LOOK
LIKE ANYTHING THAT CAN LOOK
LIKE SOMETHING BURIED ON ONE
OF OUR AGENDAS.
I WOULD HOPE THAT THE ADVOCATES
IN THIS ROOM WOULD BE
SUPPORTIVE OF A ROBUST PUBLIC
DISCUSSION AT ONE OF OUR PUBLIC
BOARDS.
THIS IT IS STRONGER FOR OUR
PROCUREMENT POLICIES TO BE
DISCUSSED AND ANALYZED AT THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
THAT'S AN IMPROVEMENT OVER WHAT
IT LOOKS LIKE RIGHT NOW.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING A
REFERRAL OF THE SECOND RESULT
CLAUSE OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION COUNCIL NO BREAKS.
I WILL NOT BE SUPPORTING A
REFERRAL.
I THINK YOU KNOW THESE THESE
COMMISSIONS ARE ADVISORY BODIES
TO COUNCIL AND I THINK I DON'T
NEED THE ADVICE OF THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION THOUGH I
CERTAINLY VALUE THEIR OPINIONS
THAT THIS IS IMPORTANT WORK TO
MOVE FORWARD TONIGHT.
WE HAVE HAD A VERY LARGE
COALITION COME TO US.
IT IS WORKING FROM ACROSS THE
STATE AND ASK US TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD AND THE REALITY IS WE
HAVE TO RESOLVE CLAUSES THE
FIRST OF WHICH WHILE IMPORTANT
IS FAIRLY PERFORMATIVE IN TERMS
OF CALLING OUT CORPORATIONS TO
ALIGN THEIR SPENDING WITH THEIR
VALUES.
THE SECOND IS WORK THAT CALLS
UPON US TO CONSIDER HOW WE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO SHIFT OUR
PROCUREMENT POLICIES OR SHIFT
OUR INTERNAL PROCESSES TO AT
LEAST DAYLIGHT THE PROCESS A
LITTLE BIT BETTER.
SO I WANT TO GET STARTED ON
THAT.
I THINK THAT THERE THIS I DON'T
THINK WHILE I VALUE A HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION I DON'T THINK
THAT'S GOING TO ADD VALUE TO
THIS PROCESS RIGHT NOW.
>> CARL ZIMMER AH THANK YOU.
>> I TOO WILL VOTE AGAINST THIS
AND I'M NOT GOING TO SUPPORT
DELAYING THIS WORK BY SENDING
IT TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT
MENTIONED, THEY CAN CERTAINLY
DISCUSS IT AND I WELCOME THEM
TO JOIN THE CONVERSATION BUT I
GUESS I WOULD POINT OUT THAT
THIS IS AT LEAST
IN MY MIND
THIS DOESN'T ONLY APPLY TO
RACIAL OR SOCIAL JUSTICE
ISSUES.
I MEAN THIS COULD ALSO APPLY TO
ENVIRONMENTALIST'S USE AND SO,
YOU KNOW, ARE WE GOING TO FIRST
SET IT TO HRC AND THEN SEND IT
TO THE ENVIRONMENT COMMISSION?
>> NO, NO.
>> I WANT OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND OUR ATTORNEYS
OFFICE TO GET WORKING ON THIS
RIGHT AWAY.
I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT WE MOVE ON IT AND I SEE
THIS IS JUST DELAY TACTIC SO I
WILL VOTE AGAINST AND AND
SUPPORT THE MOTION AS IT
ORIGINALLY WAS REPRESENTED.
>> COUNCILOR GRISWOLD, JUST TO
CLARIFY BECAUSE I KNOW I'M THE
OLDEST COUNCIL MEMBER BUT I DO
RESENT WHEN PEOPLE TELL ME WHAT
I'M THINKING AND WHAT MY
MOTIVES ARE, MY MOTIVE WAS NOT
TO DELAY MY MOTIVE WAS TO
FOLLOW THE ACCEPTED PROCESS
THAT WE HAVE IN PLACE AND TO
VALUE THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION IF WE DON'T WANT TO
DO THAT, THAT'S FINE.
I THINK THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT
BUT WE NEED TO REALIZE THAT AND
I JUST IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO
FOLLOW PROCESS BECAUSE AS A
CITY WE OFTEN HAVE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES AND WE HAVE ENOUGH
MONEY IN THIS CITY TO NOT DO
THINGS PROPERLY THE FIRST WAY
AND SIMPLY PAY TO HAVE IT DONE
THE SECOND TIME.
AND THIS IS SO IMPORTANT THAT I
DON'T WANT TO DO THAT IN TERMS
OF ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES.
>> WE HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH
OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES ON
A POLLUTER PAY ARE NOT WELL
RESOLUTIONS TO SUPPORT AND I
THINK THAT IN THIS CASE I DON'T
WANT TO DELAY THE DISCUSSION
TONIGHT AND ADD ANOTHER RESOLVE
CLAUSE BUT I WOULD SAY FOR THE
ACTIVISTS HERE IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT THAT YOU BUILD A
STATEWIDE COALITION TO SUPPORT
THE STATEMENTS HERE TODAY
BECAUSE ANN ARBOR CANNOT DO IT
WITHOUT THE SUPPORT OF MANY,
MANY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS AND
THERE WERE LESSONS LEARNED
REGARDING POLLUTER PAY.
>> THANK YOU, GENTLEMEN.
NELSON HI.
I'M GOING TO BE A LITTLE
CLEARER.
I REALIZE THAT THERE'S SO MANY
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MISDIRECTION
.
I WOULD POINT OUT THAT THE
SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE HAS
ABSOLUTELY NO TIMELINE.
>> SO THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR IS
GOING TO CONSIDER AND REPORT
BUT WE'VE WE'VE PUT NO DATE ON
THAT.
AND SO WHAT I MEANT IN MY
EARLIER REMARKS WAS WHAT THAT
LOOKS LIKE REPORT TO CITY
COUNCIL THAT COULD MEAN
ANYTHING THAT COULD MEAN A
FOOTNOTE IN A IN A MEMO THAT IS
BURIED IN AN AGENDA BASICALLY
DECLARING THIS THING INFEASIBLE
AND THAT WOULD BE THE END
OF IT.
AND SO I I HEARD THE REPEAT
OF LIKE DELAY DELAY.
THIS IS THERE'S NO TIMELINE
HERE.
SO THE IDEA OF SENDING IT TO
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AS A
METHOD OF DELAY I HAVE A
QUESTION FOR THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
THE SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE COULD
WE ADD A TIMELINE TO THAT SO
THAT ADVOCATES AND PEOPLE IN
THE PUBLIC WHO ARE INTERESTED
IN THIS COULD LOOK FOR WHAT
AGENDA A REPORT WOULD APPEAR ON
WHAT IS WHAT WOULD BE YOUR
TIMELINE IN TERMS OF UNDERSTAND
HAVING INFORMATION TO SHARE
WITH COUNCIL ON THE FEASIBILITY
OF IT, INCLUDING THIS IN
PROCUREMENT POLICIES?
COULD WE ADD A DATE TO IT?
YOU CERTAINLY COULD ADD A DATE
TO IT BUT BUT I COULDN'T SPEAK
TO A DATE THIS EVENING.
>> I CAN'T TELL YOU SITTING
HERE HOW LONG IT WOULD TAKE US
TO DO IT.
BUT IN TERMS OF REPORTING BACK
TO YOU GIVEN THE NATURE OF THE
DISCUSSION WE WOULD CERTAINLY
DO A COMMUNICATION DIRECTLY TO
COUNCIL ON THE MERITS OF THE
RESOLUTION.
THEY WOULDN'T BE VERY ANYWHERE.
IT WOULD BE TRANSPARENT.
SO EVERYONE WOULD SEE IT.
BUT I CAN'T TELL YOU HOW MUCH
TIME.
OK, SO SENDING IT TO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION IS NOT IS NOT
NOW IT DOES NOT RELATE TO A
DELAY AT ALL.
>> I AM I DON'T REALLY NEED TO
DEBATE THIS ANYMORE BECAUSE THE
POINT THE POINT TO ME THAT IS
TWISTED IS JUST MORE PUBLIC
DISCUSSION OF THIS THAT'S ALL
THANKS COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
THANK YOU MAYOR.
>> I'LL BE RELATIVELY AS THE
OTHER LIAISON TO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
YOU KNOW I DON'T THINK THERE IS
ANYTHING PREVENTING IF WE PASS
THIS TONIGHT AS IS PREVENTING
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AS
OTHERS HAVE POINTED OUT FROM
HAVING A ROBUST DISCUSSION
ABOUT THIS.
I ACTUALLY WOULD ENCOURAGE I
WILL BRING IT UP TO THE
LEADERSHIP AT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION THAT THIS WAS
BROUGHT UP.
I WOULD ACTUALLY ENCOURAGE MANY
OF THE ACTIVISTS IN THE ROOM TO
CONTINUE TO GO THAT ROUTE AS
WELL SO THAT SO THAT WE CAN
CONTINUE TO HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION.
BUT I WANT TO BE REALLY CLEAR
ABOUT WHAT THE MOTION IS AS I
UNDERSTAND IT IS TO REMOVE THE
SECOND RESOLVE CLAUSE AND REFER
TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
THE SECOND RESOLVED CLAUSE
READS THAT A CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO CONSIDER
AND REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL ON
THE FEASIBILITY OF INCLUDING IN
THE CITY'S PROCUREMENT POLICIES
AND EVALUATION OF WHETHER A
POTENTIAL VENDOR'S POLITICAL
ACTIVITIES ARE IN FURTHERANCE
OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO SUCH
VENDOR SELF PROFESSED VALUES.
REMOVING THAT FROM THIS
RESOLUTION AND REFERRING IT TO
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION WE
ARE NOT DIRECTING THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO DO THAT TO
MAKE THAT ABSOLUTE DELAYS THIS
WORK FROM BEGINNING.
I ALSO AM VERY UNCLEAR ON HOW
THAT LINE ITSELF IS
PARTICULARLY RELEVANT TO THE
ADVICE OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
THIS ISSUE IN GENERAL IS
ABSOLUTELY I THINK RELEVANT TO
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT PEOPLE'S
VOTING RIGHTS.
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT HUMAN
RIGHTS, ASKING THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION TO WEIGH IN ON ONE
LINE OF THIS RESOLUTION
REGARDING OUR PROCUREMENT
PROCESS DOES NOT PARTICULARLY
SEEM LIKE A USEFUL DELAY.
>> THAT IS WHAT THIS IS THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION MEETING
IS NOT UNTIL NOVEMBER 9TH.
THAT IS THE FIRST TIME THEY
WOULD POTENTIALLY BE ABLE TO
BRING THIS UP.
THEY ALREADY HAVE AN AGENDA
THAT THAT THEY WILL BE
CONTINUING WITH.
>> SO WE WOULD NOT BE DIRECTING
THIS ADMINISTRATOR TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH ANYTHING TONIGHT.
SO I WILL NOT SUPPORT THIS
REFERRAL.
I THINK THAT WE NEED TO VOTE.
>> THANK YOU, COUNCILOR HAYNER.
THANKS.
YOU KNOW, I WON'T SPEAK TO ALL
THIS DELAY NOT DELAY NONSENSE
BECAUSE ALL KINDS I'VE BEEN
TRYING TO GET CHAPTER FORTY
RULES BACK FROM COMMITTEE FOR
LIKE TWO YEARS NOW.
SO DELAY IS A PART OF OUR
BUSINESS UNFORTUNATELY.
BUT YOU KNOW, THIS IS TALKING
ABOUT POLITICAL SPEECH, OK?
RIGHT.
POLITICAL SPEECH AND SO THIS
NOTION THAT WE'RE CHECKING OUT
VENDORS, WE'RE CHECKING THEIR
SPEECH OR CHECKING YOUR SPEECH
SO YOU KNOW THAT'S A FINE AND
THAT THEY GIVE TO POLITICIANS
IS VERY EXPLICIT IN THIS
RESOLUTION OF WHAT IT IS ALL
ABOUT.
>> AND IT I JUST TALKING TO
SOME FRIENDS WHO AND I'M PRETTY
LIBERAL LIKE AND WHO ARE WAY
EXTRAORDINARILY MORE SO THAN ME
AND WHICH IS HARD TO BELIEVE
BUT THEY ARE AND THEY YOU KNOW
LIKE EVEN THEY'RE CYNICS ABOUT
THESE VAGUE GUIDELINES THAT WE
COME UP WITH AND YOU KNOW, IT'S
NOT FAR FROM CHECKING OUT
OF VENDORS VALUES LIKE CHECK
YOU GET A CHECK TO MAKE SURE
THE CHECK SIGN MAKE SURE YOU
SIGN A CHECK TO DONATE TO ME
BECAUSE I'M GOING TO DO YOU
KNOW IT'S LIKE THIS IS WALKING
A FINE LINE WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ADJUSTING CORPORATE
SPEECH FOR CITY CONTRACTS, THE
VERY SAME CONTRACTS WE VOTE ON.
SO I THINK THERE'S PLENTY
OF OPPORTUNITY FOR, YOU KNOW,
VAGUE CORRUPTION TO CREEP INTO
OUR PROCUREMENT PROCESS AND SO
DOES THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
BECAUSE OF AMONG THEIR OTHER
GUIDELINES OF WHAT MUST BE
AVOIDED IS MAKING UNREASONABLE
REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO
QUALIFY FOR COMPETITIVE BIDS
AND ALSO ANY ARBITRARY ACTION
IN THE PROCUREMENT PROCESS.
AND IF YOU READ THIS RESOLUTION
YOU SEE THAT IT'S VERY OPEN TO
ARBITRARY ACTIONS AND SO YEAH,
LET'S HAVE HUMAN RIGHTS HERE.
IT I DON'T I DON'T REALLY SEE
IT AS A DELAY THEN THAT'S NOT
THE POINT ANYWAY.
AND YOU KNOW IT'S TRYING TO BE
MADE A POINT BUT IT'S NOT A
POINT JUST LIKE CALLING
POLITICIAN WHOSE ADVICE AND
VIEWS YOU DON'T BELIEVE WITH
YOU KNOW AGREE WITH DANGEROUS
OR EXTREMIST OR WHATEVER THAT'S
THAT'S DEM PARTY TALKING POINTS
AND YOU'VE ALL SEEN THE FLIERS
IN YOUR MAILBOX SO I JUST WE
DON'T NEED WE DON'T NEED THAT
AT OUR TABLE.
SO YEAH.
LET'S REFER THIS NOT FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE REFERRAL CALL
VOTE PLEASE.
STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBERS
ALL YES.
SONG NO NO THAT'S OUR DENHA NO
RETAILOR NO MORE IRON.
NO WE'RE ELSOM.
YES THAT'S RIGHT BRIGS NO
ELSEWHERE LAUE ABSENT ELSMERE
HAYNER YES.
FELDSPAR DISH NO NELSONVILLE
I'M I'M SORRY I REFERRED TO
THAT AS THE REFERRAL WHAT IT
WAS IT WAS AN AMENDMENT AND A
REFERRAL.
DOES ANYONE DOES ANYONE UNCLEAR
ABOUT THAT.
>> I MEAN I DEEM THAT TO BE NOT
NOT UNCLEAR FOR FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION.
FOR MY PART I WOULD LIKE TO
VERY MUCH THANK THE DEFEND
BLACK VOTERS COALITION FOR FOUR
THE DAYLIGHTING THIS ISSUE FOR
ME BACK WHEN WHEN WE FIRST
COMMUNICATED WITH RESPECT TO
BLUE CROSS AND THEN FOR FURTHER
SUGGESTING AND WORKING WITH ME
AND ENGAGING THE TEXT OF THIS
RESOLUTION WE LIVE IN AN ERA WE
LIVE IN AN ERA IN WHICH
CORPORATIONS HAVE BECOME OVERT
POLITICAL ACTORS.
THEY ENGAGE WITH VALUE
STATEMENTS THE PUBLIC SPACE AND
THEY ENGAGE WITH SUPPORT DIRECT
SUPPORT FOR CANDIDATES AND
ELECTED OFFICIALS.
MANY CORPORATIONS I THINK WHERE
WE SHOULD ALL BE PLEASED TO SAY
DO HAVE INDEED MADE FORCEFUL
EXPRESSIONS REGARDING
STRUCTURAL RACISM AND THE AND
THE PRESERVATION OF DEMOCRACY
AND THESE ISSUES THESE
STATEMENTS TRULY OUGHT TO BE
NONPARTIZAN BIPARTITE AND
UNIQUE PARTIZAN THEY ARE
AMERICAN PROMOTION, DEMOCRACY,
THE FIGHT AGAINST WHITE
SUPREMACY.
THESE ARE
THINGS UPON WHICH WE
ALL OUGHT TO BE ABLE TO AGREE
WHEN ORGANIZATIONS ACT IN A
MANNER THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH
THEIR VALUES, WHEN PEOPLE ACT
IN A MANNER CONSISTENT WITH
THEIR VALUES, IT BUILDS TRUST,
ENGENDER CONFIDENCE WHEN
ORGANIZATIONS AND PEOPLE ACT IN
A MANNER THAT IS NOT CONSISTENT
WITH THEIR STATED VALUES, IT
BREAKS TRUST AND IT BREAKS
CONFIDENCE.
I FOR MY PART I VALUE WORKING
WITH PERSONS THAT BUILD TRUST
THAT BUILD CONFIDENCE WHEN THE
WHEN THEY SAY THAT THEY'LL
SUPPORT DEMOCRACY, WHEN THEY
SAY THEY'LL WORK TO FIGHT
STRUCTURAL RACISM, THAT THEY DO
IT AND THEY DO IT WHEN IT
COUNTS HERE AS WE'VE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THIS EVENING WE
ARE IN A POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT.
WE'RE IN A CULTURAL ENVIRONMENT
WHEN WHEN CORPORATIONS ARE
HAVING IT BOTH WAYS, WHEN
CORPORATIONS ARE MAKING
STATEMENTS IN SUPPORT
OF DEMOCRACY AGAINST STRUCTURAL
RACISM BUT ARE ACTING IN A
MANNER THAT IS INCONSISTENT
WITH THOSE VALUES AND FRANKLY
THAT'S JUST NOT RIGHT.
AND I BELIEVE THAT THE WE HAVE
LIMITED VOICE HERE AT CITY
COUNCIL BUT AGGREGATED WITH
PERHAPS THE COUNCIL'S ELSEWHERE
IN THE WORK THAT CAN BE DONE
OUTSIDE THE CITY.
WE CAN BE POWERFUL.
WE CAN EXHORT CORPORATIONS TO
EXERT THEIR INFLUENCE ON
LEGISLATORS AND CANDIDATES TO
TO FIGHT RACISM, TO SUPPORT
DEMOCRACY AND WHEN WE ALSO TOO
AS ACTORS IN THE MARKETPLACE WE
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER
HOW IT IS THAT WE DO WHAT WE
DO.
>> WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO OUR
RESIDENTS.
WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO OUR
EMPLOYEES.
WE ARE PRIMARILY SERVICE
PROVIDERS BUT WE ARE ALSO
ACTORS IN THE MARKET AND WE
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO REFLECT
UPON HOW WE DO BUSINESS AND
FRANKLY TO REPORT OUT HOW WE DO
BUSINESS.
THAT IS WHAT THE PURPOSE THIS
RESOLUTION IS WHEN IT IS
BROUGHT.
THAT'S THE PURPOSE OF THIS
RESOLUTION.
I THINK IT'S A IT'S A STEP
FORWARD FOR TRANSPARENCY WITH
OUR VENDORS AND FRANKLY
TRANSPARENCY WITH OURSELVES AND
AND I'M GLAD THAT WE'RE DOING
IT AND I HOPE THAT WILL BEAR
FRUIT FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
MAIN MOTION COUNCIL MEMBER
NILSA.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO OFFER AN
AMENDMENT TO THE SECOND RESOLVE
CLAUSE AND I WOULD JUST LIKE TO
ADD TO DATE BECAUSE THERE IS NO
DATE AND WITHOUT A DATE THERE
IS PEOPLE I UNDERSTAND THAT
THINGS ARE NOT EXPLICITLY
HIDDEN BUT THERE ARE OUR
AGENDAS ARE LONG AND THEY ARE
FULL OF ATTACHMENTS.
I WOULD LIKE TO PUT A DATE ON
THIS SO THAT ACTIVISTS WHO HAVE
WORKED REALLY HARD ON THIS
STATEMENT AND ACTUALLY BELIEVE
IN THIS CAN GET WORD BACK AND
KNOW WHEN TO LOOK EVEN IF THE
REPORT, MR. TONY IS JUST WE'RE
STILL WORKING ON IT.
CAN WE CAN WE PUT A DATE REPORT
TO COUNCIL BY JANUARY LIKE THE
FIRST MEETING IN JANUARY TWENTY
TWENTY THREE OR EARLIER
I WILL
TRY TO DO WHATEVER KELSALL TO
REXHEPI TO DO.
>> IT'S HARD FOR ME SITTING
HERE TONIGHT GIVEN WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HAVING NOT DONE
ANYTHING ON IT TO JUST SAY YEAH
I KNOW WHAT WILL BE DONE BY
THAT TIME SO I'LL TRY TO
COOPERATE WITH WHATEVER DATE
YOU PUT IT.
IF WE'RE NOT FINISHED WE WOULD
CERTAINLY APPRIZE YOU THAT OR
NOT IT'S DIFFICULT GIVEN YOU
KNOW WHAT A MONTH FROM
THANKSGIVING AND THEN WE GET
INTO DECEMBER WHEN A LOT OF US
WON'T BE AROUND THE WHOLE
MONTH.
I WILL TRY TO COMPLY WITH
WHATEVER DATE YOU GIVE ME.
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY OBJECTION
TO IT IF YOU'RE ASKING ME THAT
.
ALL RIGHT.
HOW MANY MEETINGS ARE THERE IN
JANUARY?
>> HEY, ARE THERE TWO MEETINGS
?
>> I SAY THE SECOND MEETING IN
JANUARY.
WHY
PERHAPS CANCEL THE AN
INTERIM OR FINAL REPORT NO
LATER THAN THE SECOND MEETING
IN JANUARY?
>> THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT THAT IS
SUBSTANTIVE.
>> THANK YOU.
DONI COUNSEL REQUESTS AN
INTERIM OR FINAL REPORT WHICH
GIVES YOU FREEDOM TO DO BOTH NO
LATER THAN THE SECOND MEETING
IN JANUARY TWENTY TWENTY THREE
I WILL COMPLY WITH IT.
>> THANK YOU.
MAY WE DEEM THAT YOUR AMENDMENT
COUNCILOR NELSON THAT WOULD BE
FINE.
>> SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN
RODENAS THAT CERTAINLY THE BODY
FURTHER DISCUSSION I MEAN
RATHER IT IS FRIENDLY.
I VIEW IS FRIENDLY.
>> I CAN OBSERVE IT AS FRIENDLY
TO THE BODY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION THE MAIN
MOTION AS AMENDED SORRY
COUNCILOR A DENHA.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I THINK WE'RE HOPEFULLY WINDING
DOWN ON THIS IF FOR NO REASON
OTHER THAN WE'RE RUNNING OUT
OF OPPORTUNITIES TO SPEAK UP
HERE.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO TAKE AN
OPPORTUNITY AS SOMEBODY WHO HAS
BEEN ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS
I KNOW THAT IT CAN BE
FRUSTRATING TO TO SIT IN THE
ROOM AND COME WITH WHAT I THINK
IS A RELATIVELY CLEAR MESSAGE,
AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE AND TO
HAVE US HAVE A REALLY PROLONGED
PROCESS CONVERSATION AND
ARGUMENT.
AND SO I WANTED TO JUST TAKE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO KIND OF RECENTER
THE MESSAGE AS THERE IS A SIGN
FACING ME THAT THAT I KNOW THAT
FOLKS AT HOME CAN'T SEE.
BUT JUST TO SAY THAT AND
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BLACK VOTERS
MATTER, THAT IS WHY WE ARE HERE
AND HAVING THIS CONVERSATION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS ASKED ME
TO REMIND FOLKS THAT DEFEND
BLACK VOTERS COALITION IS A
STATEWIDE COALITION AND SO THIS
ACTION DOES NOT NEED TO JUST
HAPPEN HERE IN ANN ARBOR BUT IT
CAN CONTINUE IN COMMUNITIES ALL
AROUND THE STATE AND SO GET
INVOLVED IF THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT THAT IS OF IMPORTANCE TO
YOU AND AND JUST WANTED TO
AGAIN THANK ALL OF YOU FOR
BEING HERE FOR YOUR PATIENCE
THROUGH THIS CONVERSATION AND
HOPEFULLY WE'RE GOING TO PASS
THIS AND AND START LOOKING
FORWARD TOWARDS MAKING SOME
MEANINGFUL CHANGE.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION RESULT IF I
CAN JUST EXTEND COUNCILMAN
EDINA'S COMMENTS A LITTLE BIT
AND NOTING NOT ONLY IS THIS
GROUP A STATEWIDE COALITION BUT
ALSO PART OF A NATIONWIDE
COALITION THE NATIONAL UNITY
2020 TO BLACK VOTING AND POWER
BUILDING CAMPAIGN SO UNITY 22
AND THAT INCLUDES ORGANIZATIONS
SUCH AS THE NAACP, THE NATIONAL
URBAN LEAGUE NATIONAL ACTION
NETWORK, EMILY'S LIST AND
BUILDING BACK TOGETHER.
SO WE ARE NOT ALONE AND I'D
LOVE TO SEE A SET AN EXAMPLE
FOR THE REST OF THE COUNTRY TO
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
GRISWOLD.
I BELIEVE YOU SPOKEN TWICE IN
THE MAIN MOTION I THOUGHT IT
WAS ON THE AMENDMENT.
I JUST WANT TO THANK EVERYONE
WHO IS HERE THIS EVENING.
>> I WILL BE VOTING FOR IT NOW
THAT I UNDERSTAND THAT THE
RESOLUTION CAME FROM THE
ACTIVIST ORGANIZATION FOR THE
DISCUSSION ROLL CALL VOTE.
>> PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER GRISWOLD COMES GRISWOLD
YES.
YES COUNTERPROGRAM.
YES, YES YES THAT'S RIGHT.
YES CUSTOMER NELSON.
YES THAT'S RIGHT BRICK YES.
THAT'S WHERE ALLOWING APSA
COUNTS MORE HAYNER NO CUSTOMER
DISH YES MOTION CARRIES
OH YES
WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION TODAY
.
YES MAYOR TAYLOR I AM
REQUESTING A CLOSED SESSION TO
DISCUSS PENDING LITIGATION
UNDER FCL FIFTEEN POINT SIX TO
EIGHT E THE CASE NAME IS RAZIA
ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ VERSUS JAMES
ROBERT BOYLEN AND THE CITY
OF ANOTHER WASHTENAW COUNTY
CIRCUIT COURT CASE NUMBER TWO
ONE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE TWO
EIGHT ZERO DASH AND I THANK YOU
THE MOST PLEASED TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION ON THAT BASIS
MOVE BACK IN A SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS DISCUSSION
COUNCILMAN PETER, THANK YOU.
WITH THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT, I
WOULD LIKE TO ADD THAT I WOULD
LIKE TO HAVE THE CONVERSATION
IN CLOSED SESSION.
I'M TRYING TO DO THE LANGUAGE
PROPER COMPLY WITH O'MAY
OF CONSULTING WITH OUR ATTORNEY
ABOUT OTHER MATTERS BEFORE THIS
BODY.
IT'S NUMBER TWO.
IT REQUIRES TWO THIRDS OF THE
VOTE OF THE BODY.
I WANT TO ADD A TOPIC FOR
CLOSED SESSION THAT BELONGS IN
CLOSED SESSION.
>> COULD YOU JUST TELL ME THE
TOPIC BECAUSE IF THERE IS NO
PENDING CASE PROCUREMENT
PROCEDURES IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
BE A PENDING CASE.
>> NO, BUT IT HAS TO BE A LEGAL
ADVICE MEMO TO BE DISCUSSED AND
I DON'T BELIEVE WE HAVE
PROVIDED LEGAL ADVICE MEMO ON
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES.
>> WELL, THAT'S THAT'S A SHAME.
AND I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU FOR
ONE BECAUSE WE NEED ONE.
>> OK, SO THAT'S WHY I WANT TO
GO IN CLOSED SESSION.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO HAVE THE
CONVERSATION OUT HERE WE CAN DO
AFTER CLOSED SESSION EITHER WAY
I'LL GO IN FOR WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING BUT I'M JUST TRYING TO
ADD A SECOND TOPIC.
THIS IS MY ONLY OPPORTUNITY TO
DO THAT IF YOU ARE REQUESTING
FOR A LEGAL ADVICE MEMO, I AM
MORE THAN HAPPY TO CONTACT YOU
ABOUT THE PRECISE QUESTION
YOU'RE ASKING AND PROVIDE ONE
IN TIME FOR THE NEXT MEETING IF
YOU WOULD LIKE.
NO, I PREFER A CONVERSATION
OF THE BODY BUT I CAN ACCEPT
THAT ALSO.
>> OK, BECAUSE I'M JUST TRYING
TO ADVISE THAT I THINK WE HAVE
TO HAVE A BASIS TO GO INTO
CLOSED SESSION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL MY READING ON MAZET NUMBER
TWO IS ALLOWED WITH A TWO
THIRDS VOTE OF THE BODY WHICH
IS ANY ADVICE FROM OUR ATTORNEY
ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE TO GO
INTO CLOSED SESSION ON THE
BASIS ARTICULATED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY A PART OF IS THERE ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION SEEN ON
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE ON GOING
TO CLOSED SESSION ON THE BASIS
ARTICULATED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
START WITH COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD
WORKERS BAMBUSER ELSMERE SONG
YES ELSEWHERE YES.
THAT'S WHERE DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
ELSMERE IA YES.
HOUSEWARE NELSON YES THAT'S
CORRECT.
YES THAT'S WHERE AMAWI ABSENT
COUNCILMAN HAYNER NO SMARTISH
YES.
>> MOTION CARRIES YOU'RE IN
CLOSED SESSION
OPEN SESSION WE
HAVE BEFORE US THE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MADE HAVE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
BY KELSH MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED BY
KIRK SUPPORTERS APPROVED DO WE
HAVE ANY COMMUNICATION TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO WE DO NOT.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME PUBLIC COMMENT.
GENERAL TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL IN THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION AT
THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY
YOU IN 30 SECONDS ARE REMAINING
AND WHEN YOUR TIME EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
>> IS THERE ANYONE YOU'D LIKE
TO SPEAK A PUBLIC COMMENT?
THANK YOU MAYOR.
HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS ERIC LIPSON.
I'M PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR FOR
FIFTY YEARS AND I'M RUNNING AS
AN INDEPENDENT AS YOU KNOW FOR
MAYOR OF ANN ARBOR.
I'M HERE TODAY TO COMMENT
MOSTLY ON T.S. ONE BUT I DID
WANT TO DISCUSS THE ISSUE THAT
I HEARD DISCUSSED HERE BETWEEN
THE SEVERAL COUNCIL MEMBERS
ABOUT CURTAILING PUBLIC COMMENT
AT THE END OF THE MEETING IF
THAT IS TRUE, THERE SEEM TO BE
SOME DISCUSSION THAT IT WASN'T
ACTUALLY WHAT YOU WERE
CONTEMPLATING.
>> I WOULD SAY THAT IT IS
UNNECESSARY AND IT IS
CURTAILING THE EXACT REASON FOR
HAVING PUBLIC COMMENT WHICH IS
TO BE ABLE TO COMMENT ON THE
ACTIONS OF COUNCIL AT THE END
OF THE MEETING.
IT'S NOT AS IF THERE'S A GIANT
LINE UP HERE THAT'S GOING TO
TAKE A LOT OF YOUR TIME TO TO
HEAR THAT TO ENDURE THEIR
COMMENTS OF THE PUBLIC.
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO DO THAT BECAUSE IN
FACT THAT IS ANOTHER FORM
OF SUPPRESSION YOU'RE CONCERNED
ABOUT VOTER SUPPRESSION BUT BY
CURTAILING PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
IS SUPPRESSING THE FIRST
AMENDMENT RIGHTS OF MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO TO SPEAK TRUTH
TO POWER ON THE ISSUE OF TSAY
ONE, I JUST WANT TO SAY BRIEFLY
THAT I WAS DISAPPOINTED THAT
WHEN ALL OF THE COMMENTS THAT
WERE MADE AT THE PUBLIC HEARING
ON TAKE ONE FOR THE STADIUM
AREA, THE STADIUM BOULEVARD
AREA WERE COMPLETELY IGNORED BY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
THEN BY THIS COUNCIL.
IT JUST WAS EMBLEMATIC OF THE
WAY THAT THE COUNCIL GOES ABOUT
ITS BUSINESS WITH A VERY HIGH
HANDED AND EXCLUSIVE ATTITUDE.
YOU GUYS KNOW BEST THE PUBLIC
DOESN'T HAVE A CLUE AND YOU'RE
JUST GOING TO GO HEAD NO MATTER
WHAT AND ENTERTAIN THE T.C. ONE
EXACTLY AS IT WAS FOR STADIUM
OR I SHOULD SAY FOR STATE
STREET AND EISENHAUER EVEN
THOUGH THE TWO AREAS ARE
COMPLETELY DIFFERENT AND THE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT A STAFF
PERSON ON THE PLANNING
DEPARTMENT ACTUALLY CAME UP
WITH SOME VERY GOOD SUGGESTIONS
THAT WOULD HAVE WOULD HAVE
GIVEN CREDENCE TO THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS AND WOULD HAVE
ACKNOWLEDGED THEM INSTEAD THEY
WERE COMPLETELY SHUT DOWN AND
WE JUST WENT AHEAD AND APPROVED
THAT WITHOUT ANY CHANGES.
SO I WOULD SAY THAT THE FIRST
OF ALL WHAT'S MOST IMPORTANT IS
NOT TO MAKE ALL OF THESE
CHANGES RIGHT AWAY, NOT TO PASS
THE NEXT ONE BUT TO WAIT UNTIL
THE NEXT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS
COMPLETED SO THAT PEOPLE HAVE A
CHANCE TO HAVE INPUT IN WHAT
THE SHAPE OF OUR CITY WILL BE.
THE FUTURE SHAPE THE HEIGHT AND
THE DENSITY RATHER THAN JUST GO
AHEAD RIGHT NOW BEFORE THAT
HAPPENS AND PUT THE CART BEFORE
THE HORSE.
>> SO THANK THANK YOU, MISS
BOOGY.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE I NEED
TO SPEAK TO US
, MAYOR.
I DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP SEEING
OWN PUBLIC COMMENT IS CLOSE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
I'M SORRY, IS THERE A
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD'S I
JUST WANT TO ANNOUNCE THAT
EARLY IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE A
CITIZENS GROUP WILL START A
PETITION DRIVE TO PUT THE
DECISION OF NONPARTIZAN
ELECTIONS BEFORE THE VOTERS.
SO IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE LET
THE VOTERS DECIDE IF THEY WANT
NOVEMBER TO BE THE KEY DATE FOR
WHEN WE ELECT CITY OFFICIALS
LIKE ALL BUT TWO OTHER CITIES
IN THE STATE OF MICHIGAN DO
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
CHANNELS OVER HERE.
IT'S JUST A REAL BRIEF LITTLE
TALE OF WHAT MY YOU KNOW, MY
JOB MY DAY IS LIKE.
SO I TRY AND AVOID THOSE BIG
BOX STORES FOR REASONS THAT
WERE KIND OF ITERATED HERE AT
THE TABLE.
YOU KNOW, YOU SEE THEY'LL
SPONSOR NASCAR A LOT
OF MILITARY KIND OF OVERTONES
AND THAT KIND OF THING WITH
NASCAR NFL AND AND YOU KNOW,
YOU CAN GO LOOK UP HOW PEOPLE
GIVE RIGHT.
SO I TRY TO SHOP LOCAL AND WE
USED TO GO TO FEIGLEY BUT
THAT'S GONE SO BADLY SO NOW
WITH CHELSEA LUMBER OR STADIUM
HARDWARE ANDERSON PAINTING AND
PLACES LIKE THAT IS YOU KNOW,
AS LOCAL AS YOU CAN GET IN
ANYWAY.
LONG STORY SHORT, I WAS OVER
MILLION PEOPLE DEXTER
INTERSECTION AREA AND I SEE
THAT GREEN PAINT STARTED TO GO
DOWN AND SO YOU MIGHT RECALL I
DON'T KNOW LIKE A MONTH AGO NOW
WE APPROVED A CONTRACT THAT HAD
SOME SPLIT FUNDING FOR A NEW
BIKE LANES AND NEW PAINT LANES
OUT THERE AND YOU KNOW, SOME
OF THAT PARTIALLY WAS RTA
FUNDING.
YOU KNOW, THE COVID RELIEF
FUNDING AND I DIDN'T SUPPORT
THAT BECAUSE IT'S GREEN PAINT
GOING DOWN THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO
HELP FOLKS WHO ARE MOST
AFFECTED BY COVID WHEN I SAW
YOU KNOW AND I SAW OH STRIPE IN
IT AND MAYBE PEOPLE USE IT
WHATEVER.
AND SO I JUST WANTED TO TELL
THE COMMUNITY LIKE IF YOU WERE
AFFECTED BY COVID, IF YOU LOST
FAMILY AND FRIENDS OR IF YOU
LOST WAGES OR YOUR JOB OR YOUR
HOUSING IF YOU'RE A SENIOR YOU
FELT ISOLATED FOR TWO YEARS OR
IF COVID AFFECTED YOUR YOUR
MENTAL HEALTH OR SOME WAY TO GO
GET ON YOUR BIKE AND GO LOOK AT
THAT GREEN PAINT AND REALIZE
HOW DEEPLY THE CITY CARES ABOUT
YOU.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER COUNCIL MEMBER SONG I
HAD THE PLEASURE OF MEETING
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS OVER THE
WEEKEND AND HAVING A QUICK
CONVERSATION ON THE IMPORTANCE
THAT THE STATE'S ELECTIONS ARE
FOR FOR OUR COUNTRY.
DEMOCRATS UP AND DOWN THE
BALLOT ARE FIGHTING.
WE ARE WE ARE THE LINE BETWEEN
DEMOCRACY AND CHAOS AND I'M
REALLY, REALLY PROUD OF OUR
CITY AND OUR COUNTY FOR HAVING
CANDIDATES AND ELECTED
OFFICIALS WHO SEE THAT LINE AND
ARE WORKING REALLY HARD AND
GETTING OUT THE VOTE PAST
MIDTERM ELECTIONS WE'VE HAD 28
PERCENT VOTER TURNOUT IN OUR
COUNTY FOR A CITY FULL OF HIGH
OVERACHIEVERS.
I'D LOVE TO SEE THAT.
I'D LOVE US TO SEE SURPASSED
THAT I'D LOVE US TO UNITE AND
ASSIST THE DEMOCRATS WHO ARE ON
THE DOORS EVERY SINGLE DAY.
I SEE MANY OF US WHO ARE
SUPPORTING THIS ENDEAVOR.
I'M REALLY, REALLY PROUD THAT
OUR CITY AND OUR COUNTY CAN
STAND UP WHEN IT REALLY COUNTS
AND OUR NATION IS WATCHING US
COME OUT AND VOTE.
>> THANKS FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATION.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN OR
DENHA MY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG'S
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED